Waterford 13th/6th month 1782


My dear Uncle,


        I had the pleasure of hearing of thy safe arrival in Dublin, & gladly embrace the opportunity of congratulating thee on thy return home, which should have done ere now, had I a cover to thy address. I hope to hear of Cousin Sally Birkbecks re-establishment in health, when thou hast got the better of thy fatigue after a journey performed with such expedition. I very anxiously wish for an account how inoculation has answered with Cousin Lydias dear little ones, as I was told she had summed up resolution to have it tried. Rachel Penrose inquires very frequently about themshe had the operation undertaken here with success; her little boy indeed had so little, if any of the infection, that it could not be perceived, & the Doctor cut him at three several times without causing any evident sign of the disorder. Has Cousin Debby followed the example with her daughter? I hope it may succeed with allI flatter myself I shall have the pleasure of seeing thee, & the rest of my friends in Ballitore at the latter end of Summer; especially if young George Penrose who has returned from school comes to assist in the Office. He has had an Ague since he came home. A Balfour rubs on the old wayno worse I thinkPat & Peggy very wellthe latter meditates a trip to Tramore there to continue some time & bathe when the season will admit of itPat very busy at present as the partnership of S.C & R. is to be immediately dissolved in order to bring forward Joshua Strangmans Sons into the commercial worldPray hast thou had any late account from any of the Eyres [sic] I greatly desire to know how their fortunes may have been affected by the late revolutions. If Sam had remained on board the Foudroyant perhaps it might have been well with him as she cut such a distinguished figure of late.
        Please present me affectionately to my Aunt & every branch of the family.
                I am, Dear Uncle
                        thy dutiful Nephew
                                William Rayner


