My dear Cousin,                                                 Ballitore: 26/11 month 1776.
	I received thine by thy Father in Dublin, & in conformity to thy desire (though sooner than is my general custom) hand thee the half-years Bill for thy son: the amount of which, if agreeable, may be remitted when & as convenient to thee.Through the continued favour of kind Providence, I have to advise that John continues well & hearty, is assiduous at his learning, & affords us the pleasing prospect of his becoming what we would wish him to be.
	We are mostly of our best fashion here, my wife at present tolerably, though by no means in good health, her sister better than she has been lately, though complaining a good deal. My children (through mercy) pretty well. I have had a disagreeable bout or two with my eyes, but they are at present in tolerable order. If I could afford them a little respite, I believe it would help them; but that is difficult for me to do.
	My Peggy staid some days with us after the Meeting of Dublin, was conducted from hence by her brother John & met at Kilkenny by Sam. Thy sister Abby went with her as far as Carlow from this place. Johny Chandlee went with them to Clonmel to reconnoitre that town, & contemplate whether it would answer for his setting up his business there: he went from thence to the quarterly Meeting at Cork. I find by letters that they were favoured to get well on, & I believe our Friends there would be disposed to assist J: Chandlee in business, but they think his Ignorance of the Soap-boiling makes against him. I suppose poor John will come jogging back again, as he did from Dungammon. I should think that, if he was not content to live with his Relations in Athy & join his stock with theirs, it would be better for him to essay some little thing at his own trade in the last mentioned place. I do not know what he will do, but wish he may be directed for the best.Peggys new Relations continue to be very affectionate to her: indeed I believe she is very pleasing to them. She grows heavy. The latter end of spring will possibly see her a mother, or me deprived of my beloved child. I confess to thee my weakness; I cannot help being in some trepidation about this event. It is a bed, that I have had reason to dread. But Providence is all-sufficient, & does all things for the best. Our place is humbly & gratefully to receive the present benefits, & be resigned as to the future.
	Thou heard (I suppose) that Abby has had a Suitor (one Walpole) a man of good character, rather awkward in behavior, of good property. Abby did not hesitate long, he had hardly got into the seat of Courting, when she flung him. I do not blame her. As far as I hear, thy other Relations & friends in this country are generally well. Dolly Watson, by one means or other, has had her house at Lassgarvan made uninhabitable to her. She has quitted it: they say Samuel Watson has left Cork & purposes to live at Lassgarvan: I believe Dolly will take some house in the town of Carlow to live in: she does not seem free to leave our monthly meeting. I saw Jane Watson of Rathrush not long ago: she was bravely. Robert Lecky has got upwards of 400 more of a bad debt due from Abraham Devonshier, for sister Fuller & others. Sister Fullers family pretty well. Our Quarterly Meeting is to begin this week at Carlow.
	Be sure we all join in dear love to thee & thine. Remember me us very kindly to thy Father, & believe me,
My dear Friend,
Thy affectionate kinsman
Richard Shackleton
