Ballitore 1772
Dear Molly
If I dare say a word against
thy long silence I can assure
thee I would not be silent so thou
mayst thank thy impudence
for thy pardon: I am obliged to
thee for condoling with me for the
loss of my books but I have sent
by Hamilton for the Odes of Pindar
to comfort myself for my great loss.
Thou sayest that the first fault ought
to be forgiveness & I can assure thee that
that is not thy first fault. I believe
there are 3 sums in Fellowship with
time.
I do not know what to write
to thee By the way of a story
W. Rayner

The History of Santon Barsisa.
There was formerly a Santon whose name
was Barsisa who for the space of an hundred
years very fervently apply'd himself to Prayer
& scarce ever went out of the Grotto in which
he made his residence for fear of exposing himself
to the danger of offending God. He fasted in
the Day time & watched in the night all the Inhabitants
of the country had such a great Honeration
for him & so highly valued his prayers
that they commonly [unclear]applyd[/unclear] to him when they had
any favour to beg of Heaven. When he made vows
for the health of sick person, the patient was
immediately cured - It happened that
the daughter, of the King of that country fell
into a dangerous distemper the cause of which
the Physicians could not discover yet they continued
prescribing Medicines by guess but
instead of helping the princess they only augmented
her is case. In the meantime the King
was inconsolable for he passionately lov'd his
daughter wherefore one day finding all human
assistance vain he declared it as his opinion
that the princess ought to be sent to the Santon
Barsisa - All the Bays applauded his
sentiment & Kings Officers conducted her to the
Santon who not withstanding his frozen age
could not see such a beauty without being sensibly
moved. He gazed on her with pleasure & the
Devil taking this opportunity whisper'd in his
ear thus; O Santon dont let slip such a fortunate
minute Tell the Kings servants that
it is requisite for the Princess to pass this night
in the Grotto to see whether it will please God
to cure her that you will put up a prayer for her
& that they need only come to fetch her tomorrow -
How weak is man the Santon followed the
Devils advice & did what he suggested
to him But the Officers before they could
yield to leave the princess sent one of
their number to know the Kings pleasure.
That Monarch who had an entire
confidence in Barsisa never in the least
scrupled the trusting of his daughter with
him I consent said he that she stay with that
holy man & that he keep her as long as he
pleases I am wholly satisfied on that
head
I got a letter from Mitchell in which
he says he asked [unclear]Sam[/unclear] about the books
who said that he sent them 3 Months
ago & [unclear]Almonds Raisin[/unclear] for

Hiangnan
M. Shackleton
Greecebank
or the Mill

