My dear Cousin's friendly, her affectionate letter
was a cordial to my mind after the severe loss
I & my children experienced - a loss we were
in some measure unprepared for - not knowing the
malignancy of the disorder, until the symptoms of
death made their appearance - a loss I had no
idea of sustaining; fully expecting that I should
be the first to go the road: - may the short interval
afforded, be employed to advantage, preparing
for the awful change - About a fortnight before
her dissolution, Rebecca went alone (I mean, without
any of the family) on a car to Blackrock - the next
day her disorder commenced - I considered it only some
slight ailment, to which she was occasionally subject; however
she had the assistance of Dr Johnson - his report was not
alarming - 'tis true the symptoms of a slight fever were
acknowledged - & for some days the hope of amendment
encouraged - but at length it was deemed necessary
to get another Doctor, who resided nearer; whose visits
Ballyfair, Kilcullan 14 March 1819

might be more readily obtained, in case of emergency -
from the latter she received very close attention & from a
young Surgeon, who lodged in the House - but all had little
avail - the spark of life seemed to be sustained for 4 or 5
days (during which time she remained speechless) by a sister of
hers. and by two of our daughters, frequently moistening her lips
with a feather - for prudential reasons, the other children & I
were kept from the apartment; except it might be a mournful
glance at the sufferer now & then. When we were informed
what kind of fever it had been, we expected there would
have been more victims in the family; but it pleased the
Almighty to spare us from that trial. Our medical inmate
instructed us in purifying & ventilating the House &c, and when
he could be of no farther use, he left us. After the lapse of
a week, he & the other lodgers returned. When the mother
was no more, the children united their endeavours to console
me, & we mutually endeavoured to stifle the expression of
our feelings, for the sake of each other. Eliza undertakes the
management of Household affairs, Sally the Shop, Mary the Straw
business & Isabella is very attentive to the affairs of her mistress:
in about two months I expect she may commence to earn
something to contribute to the common stock. Richard is trying
to qualify himself to act some part - we must for the present.
take his proportion on trust. I am will enough to work
in my way - but do not always receive compensation, when

most needed - however I should not complain - not having been
yet reduced to extremity - some times threatened. I endeavour, as
much as I can, not to suffer in advance - so, when evil is
averted, I escape from a portion of anxiety: my dear &
regretted companion was a prey to care, painfully anxious
respecting the future destination of her children - this care
I must now feel undivided. How many families are
in a more deplorable state than we! I have the comfort
to think that our loss has made a suitable impression on
the minds of some of our children & induced serious thoughts
and desires to be enabled to make good use of time, during
our uncertain enjoyment of it.
I regretted much that it was not in my power
to pay the last respect to the remains of
Cousin Abraham - Our ties to this world
are gradually severed; how happy those
who can turn such privations to their lasting advantage
I hope Cousin Sally is restored to health & that Mr Chandler
is freed from that annoyance he laboured under. I have
some expectation of going to Kilkenny in a day or two - if I
can accomplish it I propose calling at Ballitore on my way,
or at my return & I should be pleased to find my friends there
all in health. I am grateful for your exertion respecting
my little manuscript - I have no very sanguine expectations.
I beg to be affectionately remembered to my Friends &
well wishers & remain, Dear Cousin Mary yours sincerely
William Rayner

KILCULLEN
2
Mrs Leadbeater
Ballitore

