Ballitore I beg pardon next to mind
Ballyfair January 18th 1821
Dear Cousin,
It was like a renovation of life to enjoy
three days of pleasure in the vale of Ballitore; a comfort,
that (when I left home) I did not know was in store for me.
I shall eagerly wish for a repetition of the same. In your
pleasing society there never can be a dearth of amusement,
having within yourselves such abundant sources of the
profitable & the pleasing. - I forwarded the Letters entrusted
to my care, punctually. Mr Prendergast left home
on Wednesday, being in progress to resume his duties in
Parliament; fortunately your Letter was not sent after him,
and as I knew the writing on the superscription, I got
Mrs P— to open it. I handed her a card — after perusing
it, she expressed a desire to know, what description of
young gentlemen were educated there - I did not fail
to inform her that some of the brightest luminaries Ireland
produced, had spent their early days there, and, that in point
of instruction & of tender parental care, no seminary could

be preferable. The number I supposed to be about 30
but did not know the present pupils personally.
She had not heard of the School before, (she said) & mentioned
that a friend of hers, coming to reside in this neighbourhood
(Major Kirwan) has two boys at Armagh School, who are
about to be removed; their parents not being perfectly satisfied
with the rank of the generality of the pupils, with
whom their children have to associate; nor with the want
of cleanliness, they observed in their apartments - If you
can give me the names & parentage of some of the boys
perhaps these squeamish Galway Quality may be
induced to fix their children in a situation, so convenient
for its vicinity. Mr Kirwan has taken Brownestown
Lodge from Lord Sligo, and is coming to preside there:
His father is still living & occupies the family mansion
in the County Galway. I thank you for the verses, they
are very pleasing - I am not surprised that the regret
at separation should be reciprocal. I wish much to retain
a portion of the remembrance of so amiable a circle, where
I felt myself so completely at home
Adieu, ma chere amie,
William Rayner.
I do not cleverly know my destination, until
I receive a letter from Mr P. (which may arrive to-morrow)
nor how long I may remain here.

Col: [unclear]Neynoe[/unclear] [unclear][/unclear] of Sligo & his
& his nephew Bolton
Nesey of Magherafelt his Father a
clergyman
Murray of Durgannon his
father a Magistrate agent to Ld
Northland
Golding - father Ld. Caleden's Agent

2
Mrs Leadbeater
Ballitore
ansd 21

