Ballitore: 27/4 month 1779.


Dear Cousin Abby,


        I received thine of 5th & Sally had a letter from Peggy Christy, by which we have dull accounts of poor dear John. My wife has been much for your trying Asses [sic] milk, hope ye have made that trial before now, & would be glad (if it were consistent with the will of Providence) that it might be attended with advantage. You do well to endeavour after Resignation to that Supreme Will  the pang of parting with our dear children is heart-rending as it were, & the hour of death is replete with horrour oftentimes, but here [sic] is not in such afflictions the sharp sting of Sin & Divine displeasure. He that rules & bears sway in heaven & Earth, he that gave life is demanding it again; & all that he doth is right & best. We are not, in such a situation, bitterly lamenting the evil conduct of our offspring, & dreading their eternal as well as temporal destruction  We are only giving way to the tender feelings of humanity & parental, & herein, if we be disciples indeed, we have the sympathy of him who wept for Lazarus.
        I know not whether I mentioned in my last the loss which his friends & the Publick have sustained in William Colles of the County Kilkenny  he had been an old pupil of mine, & preserved a very grateful affection for my wife & me  From conviction in his own mind, & tender conscience, he withdrew from the worlds ceremonies, lifeless forms of worship, & embraced in his heart the vital, essential principle, which characterizes our Religious society, & forfeited (I believe) considerable emoluments by refusing to swear judicially  he ordered in his will made (I suppose) several years ago, that his Remains should be inbrued in this place  he died after a short illness, & his friends brought his Corpse to be buried here  some of us went as far as Carlow to meet the funeral: his interment was in this grave-yeard, silent, solemn & attended with the heart-tendering Power of Truth  Poor Betty Davis also died lately  I mean the widow of Richard DavisThy mother left us 19th for Violet-bank  Cousin Sam Carleton, John Chandlee, with my Debby & Molly, who accompanied her, returned hither 21st, & left her & the rest bravely 
        We are here (through favour of Providence) in general tolerably well  Sally Grubb (John) has got a fine daughter (Sarah), has pursued the new method of rising everyday from the bed, & so likely, with her little one (which she means to suckle herself), to do wellWe expect to see my daughter Peggy here to morrow on her way to Dublin: to which place we intend the day following, i.e. my wife & I, Debby & Sally, Abraham & Lydia. Molly Mellor stays by the stuff, being good-natured, sensible, clever & helpful about the familyWe expect Molly Pemberton & Molly Garratt (also theres talk of Molly Dudleys coming) to morrow. Brother & Sister Grubb, & Becky are intending also to the meeting, I hear. We have accounts of Samuel Spavolds & Thomas Carringtons travels in England visiting Meetings  There is expectation that Thomas Wily & Robert Grubb will be at the half-years Meeting, but Samuel Neales & Joseph Garratts being at it seems uncertainDolly Hodgson is come over to Dublin  Its like thou hast hear of poor cousin Susy Bewleys decease, which was very sudden 19th instant  She was at meeting the day before in the forenoon, taken ill in the afternoon (it is thought) with some Convulsion-fitsNo doubt but thou was advised of Tom Hudsons death  Ben Haughtons & Abby Boakes affair seems off at present. Sister Fuller, Jenny & Betty intend for Dublin  George Newenham, his wife, daughter & Son Neale, & Jenny Boake have been for some time past (I understand) at Christianstown  I hear Betty Newenham meant to spend a few weeks in Dublin with her sister Bewley. Sam Haughton has had his children inoculated  Hannah his sister has been with him for some time  I believe she continues but very poorly  There is a young-man (Thomas Purcell) who lived about five years with Eben Mellor & now wants a place  the Girls speak exceedingly well of him, being a good natured, obliging, faithful, honest, industrious person, a good Clerk, Accomptant & Book-keeper  If thou could hear of any one in the North wanting such, I would be obliged to thee to let me know. From what I have heard & observed concerning him, I believe he would be a valuable acquisition.
        Our Friend Sarah Newland has had it long on her mind to pay a Religious visit to the Province of Ulster. I suppose she proceeds on it pretty directly after the half-years meeting. If all be well with us, & our Friends approve of it, I know not but my wife may bear her company, as my wife seemed to have a freedom towards it, & we both hold Sarah & her Gift in high estimation. Perhaps, if no impediment should intervene, I may accompany my wife  I have never been in thy dear Sisters Quarter since her Residence ^there^. If it should be my lot that her home be a house of mourning when I first come under her room, I must be content with the dispensations of Infinite Wisdom, & hope that I will be willing, with humble, thankful acquiescence, to mingle my tears with those of my beloved friend. Be sure remember us all most affectionately to her, to our dear John, to the good old man, to both Jamess, Joe & Peggy  My kind love also to Aby Atkinson. I would be pleased to hear from some of you in Dublin. I would not have thy Sister put herself to trouble about writing to me  I am thoroughly sensible of her good inclination for it. How is her wrist now? Did she try the Immersion into hot Grains?  I understand Esther Tuke & Mabel Wigham are with divers others visiting LondonI have wrote thee a rambling sort of Letter, minuting down little matters just as they occur to my Remembrance. Thou wilt take it (such as it is) in good part, & believe me
        My dear Abbys
                affectionate friend & Kinsman
                        Richard Shackleton
