Lisburn June 21st 1816
My dear Friend
Immediately on the receipt of thy
letter yesterday evening I wrote to Joseph Smyth, the
best & most respectable printer in Belfast, & he says
in reply; "With respect to Mrs Leadbeater's Cottage
Biography I think there is no printer or bookseller
in Belfast that would be willing to risk money, at
present, in the purchase of any new work, for every
person in business has great difficulty in raising
money to meet the engagements he has already made.
But I shall engage to print an edition of the work
on as low terms & with as liberal credit as is in my
power." I shall not make farther inquiry until
I hear from thee, as I think J Smyth the only eligible
printer in Belfast, but indeed the times are such
in this part of the country, that the purchase of books
is too great a luxury for the generality of persons;
besides so great is the want of confidence in the stability
of many of the inhabitants of Belfast, that no prudent
printer would be willing to sell on credit to booksellers.
Should thee think of sending the work to J

Smyth, I shall inquire the terms on which he will
print.
I am very glad to hear so favourable an account
of Deborah & I hope her amendment may
continue. It is my Aunt Hancock's daughter Betsy
who is gone to Dublin. Poor Margaret must indeed
suffer most severely, & it must be afflicting
in a great degree to her near connections to witness
her sufferings.
I thank thee for inquiring so particularly
about my father. His chest continues to give him
great pain & he has the rheumatism most severely
in his right arm. He is at present very busily
engaged repairing a schoolroom for us, as we found
the one which we at present occupy too small for
the number of children who are anxious to attend.
William is very much pleased to find that thou
thought the linen strong & cheap. He hopes to have
the linen you sent soon bleached. Betsy is quite
stout again, but she has been very delicate during
last spring.
I was not disappointed in thy not being
able to procure subscribers to the Tales in French. I

have not enough of a spirit of Quixotism to make
me very ardent in seeking for subscribers to a
work which I have not seen, [insertion]&[/insertion] of the author of
which I have not formed an high opinion. I am
not personally acquainted with her. I am perhaps
too fastidious in forming acquaintances, as [deletion][/deletion]
I have seen some miserable instances of the bad
consequences arising from too great a facility in
associating with every person that chance may
put in the way.
I had intended writing more but some
company calling in after tea prevented me from
saying all I wished & I must only add add[unclear]that[/unclear]
I am very truly thy affectionate
S Hancock

Mary Leadbeater
Ballitore

