Clonmel 6th of 3rd month 1783

My dear Father,

	Since I sent thee another hasty scrawl I received thy kind letter of 27 ultimo, I was concerned to find my Mother was indisposed, but I hope before now she is restored to her usual health, I think Mother Grubb also rather gains ground, she was at meeting to day, her chief complaint is weakness, she has long felt an increasing debility of body, which I think does not threaten any sudden change. I did not hear of thy being in Dublin before I heard it from thyself, but have since heard of it from other means. We have ^not^ yet received an account of Brother Robert & sisters being arrived at their home, perhaps thou may before us. We are at present favoured with the company of Ruth* & Anne, they are engaged in visiting families here, accompanied by Uncle Benjamin, chusing not to have many with them, that they might be the more at liberty to deal plainly in friends families, without giving offence, or exposing the states of their Brethren & sisters by profession, which seems to have a good deal in it, they began with us this day week in the evening, & spoke comfortably to Mother, having to revive, or apply to her this Language, Speak comfortably to her, & say her warfare is nearly accomplished, & encouraged her not to be over troubled but remember that in the Fathers House were many Mansions, also spoke encouragingly to Becky: they are much favoured in our publick meetings, Ruth appeared powerfully this day, but very close, being made sensible, that notwithstanding our plain friendly appearance, we wanted weight, & were very deficient in being exercised to dig for the pure Water of Life. & that a cry ran thro her. The Harvest is over & we are not gathered, the Summer is ended & we are not saved. [sic no close quote]
	Brother John says Brother Robert paid him for the Cider PipeWhat did he charge it? Uncle Ben had not asked for the 30 shillings but intended to ^do^ it: his daughter Sally remains the same way with her aim. Richards burns are all healed; they are bravely of the cough. Sam says, he thinks the lease is in the Registry office in Dublin.* I cannot say much about the Garden, I dont know whether ^we^ shall ever get it graveled, I cannot spare time to be going to it, when I do I find a loss at Home, & a confusion of cares attack me on my return, for my cares seem to exceed my abilities sometimes: & my mind is astray with all the rest.
I have just received my dear Fathers kind letter of 4 instant, which was truely [sic] acceptable to me. When I wrote last I omitted saying Brother John got well home, & bravely recovered. I join thee in sentiments respecting sister Roberts visit to Ireland. Billy Rayner did come here with the friends. I think he seemed much as usual: was very loving & pleased to see us. I am obliged to thee for the many pieces of intelligence, & instructive remarks thou hast favoured us with, which were truely grateful. I am glad Paul is gone off. I do not doubt but the keenness of the air may prevent my Mothers establishment in health many have colds here, I am not quite free either.
	I hope soon to write something again; our dear love attends you all, as if named, & am your
	dutiful and
		affectionate daughter.
			Margaret Grubb

The friends, my Mother & Becky dine at Uncle Bens to day in their new Habitation, which the family seem to like, & now prefer to this House, where we are passing some days of our painful pilgrimage

* They lodge with us.
* or with thyself at Ballitore



