Dear Cousin,
as to commit thy darling boy to our care even under the
influences of this baneful distempter, so fatal both to life
& beauty, it is but reasonable that there shoudnt have every
satisfaction of information concerning him which is in our
power to give. The small pox which was before in the
neighbourhood has now made its way into our house, one little
boy has taken it named Ayres. Surgeon Johnson who is
highly approved for his skill in the new method of treating
this disorder attends him, he lives in the village & is very
attentive, the pock is of the confluent kind but in very
good order & attended with favourable symptoms. There are
two other of our boys who have not had [insertion]it[/insertion] beside, John & our
two young men, we have advised their friends to remove the
boys, who yet are preparing for the worst by the necessary
preparatives of Physick & abstaining from meats, which
(in this case) the doctors say is profitable, we advertised
& suitably of its first approach, but my mother & aunt
considering how they are circumstanced at Athey have thought
it better that John should pass through that fiery trial at
The Retreat under the inspection of Aunt Abbey So they
As thou hast placed so much much confidence in us
have

have taken him over the water, allow him very little meat,
watching every bit the poor child eats & in short have already
marked him a Victim to that miserable disease, the Child
is in lusty health, has no symptoms of Smallpox except
two flea bites that appeared last night upon his temple.
Aunt Abby is now come & all in readiness, so if John takes
it thou need not fear for him unless that he will be killed
with too much care. The Surgeon (who is after thy own
heart) is to attend him. John is quite reconciled to the event,
& seems to desire it. As to the school he complies with every thing
as I could wish; no hard tasks have yet been impressed [insertion]upon[/insertion] him, nor
any great diversity of business, as attention must be paid to his
spirits, that they be not too much depressed by the strict conformity
to rule that a publick school requires, he felt a little awkward
at first in incorporating with so mixt a multitude, but
that has worn off & I hope our attention to his morals & behaviour
will prevent any blemish of this world from sullying
his spotless innocence.
If I had had any hint of it I would have written
to thee when at Dublin. We are glad thou hast gotten
safe home & had so agreeable company. We got one letter
from my father since he arrived at London, but he is so engaged
there between duty & friendship (which has it's duties too)
that he has little time to write. I never thought of the
entrance

entrance money; but will charge it to John's account. Jon r
Hill came to pay us a visit last 7th day & staid First day
for noon meeting; he requested to have John for a bedfellow,
John, although I doubt not his love for his friends, yet hates to
have much fuss made with him. We were pleased with Jonn's
visit, who seems reconciled to his change of abode.
Brotherly webb is as present with us, Peggy found him here
at her return from the meeting of Moate; her cold &c consequently
better, my Aunt also better.
Please do remember us to the particulars of yr Family.
I am dear Cousin,
Ballitore 6 of 6 mo. 1776
thine sincerely
Abm Shackleton

