Ballitore 30/12 month 1781.

	My dear Cousins favours of 22d & 24th came duly to hand -- I would hardly make reply so soon, but that thou requested early intelligence about our dear Peggy Grubb. Sam writes me that she was safely delivered of a daughter 27th, between 7 & 8 oclock in the morning; he says, The knowing ones were fearful for Peggys safety, some circumstances attending that were not usual to her -- but all is so far well. And as I am upon the subject of additional Grandchildren, I may also acquaint thee that our dear Lydia was safely delivered of a Son yesterday morning, between the hours of 1 & 2 oclock -- she had a quick time, & so far like to do well; with her little-one -- I have not yet learned the names of the children. Its a happy circumstance & great favour to be helped well through these trying seasons -- None of this house were with poor Peggy -- My wife staid at Abys all the night of this event. Lydia intends to strive to nurse, but I believe will hardly be able to effect it -- her other children finely -- I understand the wife of Reuben Harvey of Cork died lately in child-bed & left him ten children -- I suppose Robert Grubb is likely to marry Sally Tuke, the daughter of William by a former wife -- I have not yet heard of Edith Lovells having left the nation, but hear she had pretty much finished the family-visit in Cork, & intended to sail soon from thence for Bristol -- Jo Sparrow was gone to accompany her over -- I am told he is not to get his matrimonial affair dispatched till next fifth month -- Sam Penrose has presented his intentions of marriage with Betty Shannon -- Bob Clibborn I suppose is to be married to the daughter of the widow Morris of Cork 1st proximo -- This Ballitore is a central place for Intelligence -- Our Quarterly Meeting was 22d instant in Carlow. No public friend attended it, except Sally Newland, & what shall we call Molly Dudley? who with her husband was at it. Sally appeared lively in Ministry toward the latter part of the last meeting -- Nothing of ministry besides -- Yet I thought it was a season in a good degree favoured -- Our next province Meeting is to be at Castledermot in usual course -- John Webb was at Carlow on his way to the North -- he said his sole business was about his Certificate -- I thought it was not worth his while to take so long a journey about it -- recommended him to go no farther than Ballitore -- Surely he might take Charlemount Meeting at their word, & if they will not allow him to be a member of society, Waterford Meeting by a Record may admit him & his family into membership at once -- And that puts an end to the squabble. And the Devil who loves discord will be disappointed. I should like to hear how the honest young-man comes off. I am pleased to hear that thy worthy Father is better of his complaint, & thy brother better in his spirits -- I believe my good old friend James Moreton would not intentionally give just cause of offence to any, to Jew, or Gentile, or to the church of Christ. I had opportunity of sending thy Letter to Abby the day after it came to my hand -- We purpose shortly to send for thy mother & her -- I think to write to Miles Atkinson that I comply with his request. My Molly sends thy Peggy some of her Rhymes fresh from the mind, of a new coinage -- I do love that same Peggy of thine, & hope she will persuade her William to lay it out so as that they will spend some days with us the ensuring Spring -- before the burden of a family comes upon her. Present our very dear love to that young couple -- May they steadily seek, & I doubt not but they will find best treasure! Our affectionate salutation to thy father & James Moreton, when thou hast opportunity -- Our best wishes attend Joseph & James -- Our kind greetings to thy brother James & his wife -- I hope poor Molly MccLough is better -- we are all of our best fashion here at present, & unite in true love to thee.
		I am my dear Debbys
			affectionate friend & kinsman
				Richard Shackleton

