From the same to the same
I received my dear & honoured friend Abiah Darbys letter while I was in Dublin attending the solemnity of our half-years meeting  it was very pleasing to hear from thee, & I took it exceedingly kind of to be so favoured by thee. Thy letter gives expectation of a packet from Cousin Debby; but it does not come. She has ^been^ I trust better employed  in disseminating precious seed, the seed of the kingdom, in hearts prepared by the heavenly plough of divine visitation. When she shall have stripped off her robes, & put on her every day clothing, perhaps she will condescend to sit down & converse with us - However, I am glad I was ever acquainted with you there: your society when present is a fund of agreeable entertainment to me  your fellowship when absent is a comfort to my spirit - & I trust not even death will be able to dissolve this latter tie. I am glad to know by thine, that you were then tolerably well: I have, through the kindness of a merciful Providence, to commemorate that a good degree of health & tranquility is lengthened out to us here. We do not all live altogether in ease & affluence, but by the blessing of heaven on the honest industry of some of us, we all get a little sufficiency - we live in much love & harmony, I believe all looking & leaning one way, thoroughly sensible that if we should unhappily offend, & the great hand, which keeps us together, should withdraws its protection  if we should think anything of ourselves, & in the foolish pride of our vain hearts say, Who is the Lord? instead of a sweat sweet smell, we should soon become a stench, & instead of praise become a hissing. Think of us, my dear friend, for good - & when we have access to the place where prayer is wont to be made let us put up our petitions on the behalf of one another, & of our near connexions, that neither height, nor depth, nor any other creature be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. +++
We have lodging in this village Anna Taverner; a young woman who has been considerably above a year confined for the most part to her bed by sickness  she has a variety of painful complaints succeeding one after another  one disorder seems to exhaust its fury & then another attacks ^her^ with fresh violence  still she remains a patient, meek, lamb-like sufferer, favoured I believe with divine support to her mind, & with the invisible strengthening unity of all the living  she neither ends nor mends - is sometimes very cheery & pleasant in innocent conversation  sometimes immersed in langouste an uncommon degree  Within these few months past, the head of the family where she lodges, a most humane, kind friend to Anna, was suddenly removed by a fever.  she, whose nerves would be agitated by the merest trifle, had this shock to hear in the height of her illness  but what distress can there be, to which inward spiritual consolation is not an adequate countervail? She bears all, not only with patience, but with thankfulness, may her cup at times overflows, & she has as it were a song of mercy & judgement.
With my best wishes for best comfort to be still nearer thy spirit, as thou approachest nearer the close of all, I remain
thy truly affectionate friend
Richard Shackleton
Ballitore: 27/12 month 1785

