Sunniside [sic] 28th: 10 month 1785

The Packet Sent to my Daughter Debby from our Beloved Friend was truely acceptable to us - A rich treasure indeed. And plainly manifested thy Love, remembrance, and kindness to us. We longed to hear from you our Dear Friend, and our longing was repayed with interest! - I have often had a Strong desire to Salute thee, thy worthy Spouse and Dear Children with Sincere Love, but as often delayed: hoping to be more replenished with the overflowings of that living Stream which gladdens the heart, and opens a free Communication in Simplicity and Truth, without labouring for matter or Elegant Expression - but my pen to be that of a ready writer, full of Love, good-will and earnest desires for each others welfare.
       But I cannot forbear any longer, although my poor Mind is Stil [sic] a barren Soil - Seldom hearing the bursting of the Rocks, and falling of the Waters in my desert Land - that little fruit doth spring forth for my Self or my friends. --however I am poor barren and Empty, yet a degree of that Love - dare I Say Divine? - doth measurably influence my heart, and reaches to my beloved friends, yea to all - wishing, yea more than wishing - praying for their welfare as my own - in that Sacred Name, the heavenly Father will in no wise refuse, if the petition be accompanied with Sincerity. Oh at ^that^ true Sincerity may cloath my Mind, but how hard to attain unto! - how hard to know Our Selves! Oh that the holy Light May flow down upon my darkness with double refulgence, that I may behold my State as it is in the view of the great Searcher of hearts - that humility and abasement may bow my Spirit before him who giveth grace to the humble, and covers with peace the contrite heart!
       Thy visits to us have been truely acceptable - and although my Spirit was Exceedingly depressed when thou wast last here, yet I was Sensible thy Sympathizing Spirit readily Excused my inattention. - my Concern for my Dear Sister was great; but I mourn not without hope - She was favoured to depart ^in much quietness and stillness: and we doubt not of her merciful acceptance with the Father of mercies! Oh that we may be fit and ready for the Kingdom when he is pleased to Call us! -
	We have had the acceptable company of our worthy Friends Rebecca Wright and Martha Routh. they stayd here away near two weeks - Visiting the families of our three meetings, and had three public meetings besides private. Dear Rebecca was very much pained in her Knee, we were much concerned for her. They left us last 2nd day, & went for Dudley & Stourbridge; Daughter Debby went with them, and to Birmingham - I believe they were going towards Cornwall. William Matthews we believe is in Wales - we expect him here soon, also Mehetable Jenkins, and Ann Jessop, who we believe are now Companions in Worcestershire. - Dear Mollys discription [sic] of Ballitore is particularly pleasing, and Picturesque; - I hope her productions are Collected, that they may be preserved.
We often think and talk of you, and of the hospitable [seal] house, and Asylum for the Lords Servants to rest in, mend their Nets, refresh their Spirits as well as Bodies for future service. - Robert Barnard is Safe arrived after a rough passage and landed in Milford-haven. & Came from thence here, and brought a letter for Debby, which we hope to give her. Perhaps you have heard the agreeable news of Nic^h^olas Waln and our other Friends being Safely arrived on the American Shore. - We also have had the very agreeable company of our Valuable Friend William Rotch and his Son from Nantucket, Stoped [sic] Some days. And was here when Rebeca came, who were glad to see each other. he is a descendant of the honoural [sic] Mary Starbuck. -- our unfeigned Love Salutes you all by Name, in which our families would Join did they know of my Writing -- In near fellowship I rest thy Sincere tho poor Friend Abiah Darby

I expect Debby will write from soon after her return, which will be in a few Days I hope - but I had not patience to wait - as I believed you wanted to hear of us, we are thro Mercy in tolerable health, as I hope you are. --



