My dear Cousin,                                                 Ballitore: 16/2 month 1779.
		I am indebted to thy letters of 23rd ultimate & 2nd instant. It is more than we could expect, that thou should devote so much time to us in the midst of thy trouble, only that we well know the sincerity & cordiality of thy Friendship for us. We do most heartily sympathize with thee in thy trouble, & make thy case our own. By accounts from thy sister Abby we fear greatly for dear John: how sudden was the stroke! he had been with us in the parlour ^in the evening^ reading a Friends book, to appearance quite well, next day complained of indisposition. No time was lost, no pains spared for his relief. When he did not recruit as we wished, we immediately applied to his aunt, & to the Physician in whose skill his aunt principally confided. All efforts seemed & still seem ineffectual to make a radical cure  What can we do in such a situation, but after using all likely means, & while we are using them, endeavour patiently to submit to that hand, which gave or permitted the blow, that hand which, like the hand of a Parent, feeds & corrects? I know these things are easily said  but any real, effectual support which we can receive must come by the sense of Feelings, & Feeling of supernatural kind, Feeling of Divine Favour graciously extended to us individually, which as we happily experience, we shall be brought thereby to acquiesce in the Will of Heaven, believing that all these things are ordered for the best, & resting in the present Earnest & quiet assurance of our own Salvation  My Debby has a letter of 13th from her sister Peggy, in which she writes, I was much concerned on account of our dear Cousin Debby Christys fresh affliction: how tried is she! I have thought much of her, & this saying in the Scripture has occurred to my mind, Every branch in me that beareth fruit, my heavenly Father purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. Oh, my all tend to that end in her, & may she feel Divine support is my very sincere desire. Thomas Greers conduct looks odd indeed: but his manner is peculiar & singular in some respects  I have not a doubt (notwithstanding appearances) that he dearly loves thee & all thine, & that he is inwardly & secretly drawn to intercede on your behalf  And perhaps his Prayers may be of greater use to you than his Presence  Though I acknowledge I do not approve of his ostensible indifference; for we have it on record in holy writ, To him that is afflicted pity should be shewed from his friend. By a letter from Cork we learn that Samuel Neale & Joseph Garratt have sailed for England about two weeks ago, but we have not yet heard of their landing. It is really disagreeable (as thou remarks) to have so much impertinent Talk about poor Peggy. We cannot stop peoples mouths. Its very well that they have no worse to say of her than that she is pleasing in the view of sober, sensible young-men, & I hope that Wisdom which dwells with Prudence will so regulate her conduct, as that she may never give just cause of offence to a censorious world. Sam Grubb has been here some days, is now gone to Dublin to be with Aby at his second presentation to day, intends to stay the Marriage, which is expected to be 23rd. I purpose to take the three girls with me to town the day before, & to bring all back with me the day after the wedding. I understand Tom Haughtons Marriage is put off for two weeks. I know not for what reason. Tom was here when his Mother died. It seemed to affect him much, & there seemed at that season, or about it, an openness to lay matters home to the best feelings of him & his brother Ben. I have some hopes for Tom, that he is not quite insensible, nor incorrigible. But he will have enough to do to stand against the allurements of the libertine company, with which he has associated & too much assimilated, in that town of Lurgan. I hope thy brother James (who knows something of the strong cords of temptation, as well as of the long-forbearance of a merciful Judge) will have an eye to him for his good, & cherish every disposition which he may observe in him tending to a Reformation. Cousin Abby would (I believe) inform thee that poor Sam Jessops of Athy was dead. Betty Pike, Sally Newland & I paid him a little visit, as we returned from the Province-meeting of Mountrath, a meeting in some of the sittings of which my spirit was enabled to sacrifice. Poor Sam seemed in a good frame of mind, & (it is to be hoped) found mercy at the task. I suppose thou knew Nancy, the daughter of the widow Stewart of Marlborough Street: she had been married to the husband of her wishes  Johnston a young-man of this country, who lived in Bordeaux  She bore children fast, & seldom got her health after she went to France  Her brother Billy writes me that she died there last month, left a number of young children & a distressed, affectionate husband. The family in Dublin appear to be in great affliction about the loss. When I was last in town I paid them a visit (before they heard of this event): the old-woman looked as though she would not hold very long under her tedious indisposition. I would be very sorry that any apprehension should prevent thy writing thy sentiments freely to me: though I am naturally communicative like thyself, yet like thyself (I hope) I have some discretion. Thy Letters are in safe custody, & when I can get leisure to inspect them a little, tho they may be innocent as Martyrs, yet like Martyrs possibly some of them will be adjudged to the flames. Farewell, my dearly beloved Cousin. May the best & only true comfort attend thee! We all salute thee & all the family with true affection, particularly our dear John, of whom we request to hear as often as any way convenient.
Richard Shackleton.

[address]
To
Deborah Christy

