My dear Cousin,                                                 Ballitore: 20/12 month 1778
			This day I received thine of 17th instant, on which 17th I believe I wrote to thee - Through the favour of Providence John continues (we hope) on the mending-hand, eats better, looks better & is in better spirits. My wife & I had concluded; if he had been left with us till we should retreat, & should not then have been strong & stout enough to have done with the general care, to have taken him along with ourselves as one of our own children, & not as a pupil of the school, till he should either be sufficiently recovered to attend school again, or to be taken home to thee. Thy Scheme of removing him sooner perhaps is best, & lest he should not continue to recruit according to the present pleasing prospect, we are satisfied that he should go under Aby Atkinsons good convoy, not doubting but we will get an opportunity of sending him to Dublin in the beginning of next week. Running wild a little at home, & shaking hands a while with his books (in Thomas Ellwoods phrase) may probably conduce to the establishment of his health, & at any time when it may be thought proper to remand him to our care, I believe we will all be willing to do whatever may lie in our power for this dear child: his being so much at home with us of late has made him much more affable & agreeable than he sometimes was wont to be. We are concerned about thy other children, hope thou wilt not be long without letting us hear from thee about them & thyself. Poor Sally Nicholson!
	I had a letter of the first magnitude this day from Esther Tuke: she complains, or rather commemorates her infirmities - She writes that our valuable friend Thomas Colley has had a concern to visit the West-Indies, which he purposed to lay before friends. A most weighty, arduous, difficult, dangerous service; which argues the unlimited devotedness of his all to the propagation of the glorious gospel.
	Jenny Watson (Blakefield) is come to spend a few days with us, she brings that all is well at Violet-bank, & that thy sister Hannah intends for the meeting at Carlow.
	Besure write soon - we shall long to hear how ye are - mention thyself & Peggy, which thou omitted in thy task. My Sally is better, dined below stairs to day - the rest of us I think of our best fashion - we heard lately from Peggy - her children have been a little ailing - My wife & children unite with me in close & near affection to thee. All our dear love to thy Father, brother James & children. Jenny Watson & Sam Carleton send their love.
		I am, my dear Debby,
				very truly & affectionately thine
						Richard Shackleton
