My dear Cousin,                                                  Ballitore: 15/2 month 1777.
	Thy acceptable lines of 29th ultimate came to hand. I came from Athy this morning, left thy mother & sister & the family there bravely. Thy brother Sam has also been here & ^at^ Athy, gives a good account of the health of his family. Samuel Neale & Joseph Garratt are on a religious visit to those parts; which occasions people to come out of their holes, & helps to bring us together. a warm season advancing, & sunshine is apt to bring to view creatures that have been latent in the winter. I do not apply this to thy brother & sister, who (I believe) are careful to get abroad when they can: but the Gospel-showers & genial sunshine of it even cause sometimes those to stir out, who have like obscure Reptiles been long lying as it were under a stone. Abby seemed cheerful & reckoned matters were much altered for the better, so I never spoke to her Cousin on the subject. She expects to be at the Quarterly Meeting at Mountmelick 22 instant  My Peggy was lately at the Province meeting at Waterford, went in a chaise most of the way, could not well bear to go on horse-back. Samuel Neale was not there. While Peggy was abroad I suppose her servant-girl was detected in gross misconduct. Her next-door neighbours (i.e. her brother Joseph & wife) manifested their friendship in managing prudently for Sam & Peggy in their absence. Jos wife is I believe at or near Down-lying. My Debby intends setting off 25th instant for Clonmel & taking up with her at Carlow a servant-girl whom Abby has recommended to her friend Peggy.We are favoured with tolerable health & tranquility, much pleased with the prospect of seeing thy Peggy here, who may be assured of a very affectionate welcome, & the mother may depend on our best care of her daughter. But of this I trust little need be said among us. I hope a Friendship subsists which is stronger than death, even an union which mortality cannot dissolve, & which I hope the living will experience to cement our spirits together, who are still engaged in the conflict, as it was the bond of our Fellowship with the happily released from it. Thy little fellow is (thank Providence) very well & hearty. The unhinging him from his attention to his learning by taking him to visit his friends is certainly attended with more or less inconvenience & detriment, in proportion to the length of the way, & the stay. Therefore I would prefer his going to Derrygarran rather than he should be taken to Stranmore. But I submit, not doubting but that a consideration of the childs true interest will induce thee to do whatever is judged most proper for him, even though it should be counter to thy even natural inclination: and indeed sacrifices of this sort, which cost Nature some pangs, are often well accepted by him who sees in secret, & a Blessing often attends them. Thy Parting with this dear boy I am persuaded was on a well-grounded Principle, & I trust the end will be in a good measure answered. The keeping up & tightening the Chain of his acquaintance with his Relations & Friends I think is very suitable, & I hope opportunities will offer for it, without any sensible disadvantage to him in his education.
	Last fourth-day Jonathan Haughton buried his poor wife. It is about 14 years since having taken cold in her lying-in, she has been mostly deprived of reason, nor did it seem restored to her near the conclusion. However, she went off very quickly, & the family is relieved from great Inquietude, & the Incumbrance of a poor miserable object. When in her reason, she was a religious, valuable, agreeable woman, parent, wife, & friend. I hear Nanny Bell (that was Watson) of Cockermouth is dead: she did not long survive her brother Jonathan. Dolly Watson has taken a house & lives in Carlow. Betty Haughton (sister of Mary deceased as above) was here at the funeral, she lives with Robert Lecky: he is up still, building away. I suppose Jonas Duckett has hired another person for a Tutor, & Jonathan is about leaving him. Jonathan seems to like the business of school-keeping. tis a pity but that he should follow an occupation which suits both his abilities & inclination. Whether & when a vacancy will happen in Dublin timely for him is hard to say. Eben Miller of Edenderry is thought to be in a declining way as to health. I am concerned at thy giving up thoughts of seeing Leinster this summer, wish thy Inclination & Convenience may conspire to bring thee to us. I dont know how it will be about my seeing Ulster. I have been at Moyallon & Lurgan near 25 years ago. All our dear love attends you all I am,
Dear Cousin,
very affectionately thine
Richard Shackleton
