Mt. mellick 7th of 10th mo. 1790.
My dear Mary,
I hope thou hast been well & comfortable since I
left thee, I believe I need not tell thee how much I wish it
as thou by this time knows me I think - It was not for nothing
it seems that I was so uneasy about our own dear Susy
Bewley, I suppose thou hast heard of her disastrous
journey, how she & Tommy were thrown off the horse &
she a second time & had to walk some miles till they
hired a Chaise & even there they were not easy for
one of the horses plunged & kicked till he broke the
Harness & so they had to hire another Chaise I suppose -
Now if you have not heard this at Ballitore perhaps Susy
would wish to have it kept a secret for it was given rather
so me from her sister Nancy, so thou mayest use thy prudence
about it - I got home here safe & well before 7 oClock
in the Evening of the day I left you after calling at Rice's
who, as I was informed, was not at home, however I enquired
of a young man who seemed to be Clerk there, particularly
respecting Wm. Sweeny & find nothing against him that
might prevent Abraham from hiring him as this Young
man gave a good Character of him, & said that Stephen
Rice wd. not give him a good Character if the man did not
deserve it, thou may tell Abraham this, & if it is necessary
for me to call again, please to let me know, it is very little
if at all out of my way, by Monsterevan, to Ballitore - I have
spoken

spoken to several friends respecting my going to Clonmel for a
while, & I am likely to succeed in obtaining liberty from the
Local Committee as Wm. Gatchell seems very willing to do
all in his power to accommodate me. But how I shall
travel to Clonmel I know not, & would like to have thy
opinion respecting it, for if I go in the Mail-coach it will
be unnecessary enough for me to hire a horse from this if thou wd.
be kind enough to let me have thy Mare to ride to Ballitore,
& if I am to ride all the way perhaps it may be convenient
for me to take her on - I am afraid of purchasing a
horse hastily lest I should be imposed on - Now if this appears
to thee imprudent or unbecoming do not submit to it - If
I could hear from thee by 1st day's Post & that thou wert satisfied
I might send a man second day for the Mare, but
if this is impracticable settle it thyself if thou please -
I must break off for I am afraid of the Post's going out -
Give my dear love to thy father & mother & those who inquire
for me, & believe me to be thy
dearly affectionate
Wm. Leadbeater

Mary Shackleton
Ballitore.
William Leadbeater
Mt.mellick : 7/10mo: 1790
ansd. -9 -

