Ballitore, 3rd of 8th mo: 1776
My dear Molly,
I think I have given thee time enough
to rest after thy journey without troubling thee with any
of my impertinence. I was very glad to hear of your safe
Arrival at Clonmel & also to hear thou had not forgot thy
kind Intention of writing to me for which I heartily
thank thee. As it is natural for every one to love himself
best I would wish that thy Correspondents were fewer
(It would be too much to wish them less agreeable) for then
I might get more letters from thee than I can expect
as matters are circumstanced now. Ere this I suppose
thou hast seen many fine places in & about Clonmel
are there any in thy opinion which surpass or even come
up to this Village once thought beautiful & perhaps yet
so if in thy Travels thou hast even seen no place which prossess
more charms. P. Stackpole a few days ago got a
Letter from Jack Hall in which he informs him they
lately heard from William who was very well; He was
in a little Skirmish in which his party came of with
good

Success. They took a place called Brunswick, 24 Men
Prisoners, some Cows & Horses with only the loss of one
Man. Jack desired his love to thee. I would be very
glad to hear some good news of poor Tom. Eyre Now I
have begun this Letter I can't tell when I'll have it finished
& what conveyance to send it by however will write on
& don't fear but I'll soon get an opportunity. I will make
as much haste as I can that I may have the pleasure
of a Letter from thee which I don't expect to enjoy before
this reaches thee. I have heard of an ugly affair that
happened on the high road between this & Kilcullen which
if it be true is very melancholy - Four or five Soldiers
were escorting a deserter to the Regiment to which he
belonged. The Prisoner pretended to be tired or really
was so. In such a case I suppose they have power
to press a Car & Horse which they attempted to do
the Country people resisted & immediately fell upon
the military Gentlemen with Forks, Spades or other
implements of Husbandry. killed two upon the spot
& wounded the rest in a dangerous manner. The deserter

made off & having gone for about 2 miles thought
it the wisest method he could pursue was to turn back
& join the Soldiers - He did so - for which he expects
his Pardon. I was told the above by a brother of Pat.
Rogers; who met the wounded Soldiers going to demand
Justice of Just AP Batty. That happened on Seventh
day - I have heard nothing of it since. Certainly
the Gentlemen of this Country have little Cleverness
or spirit in them to suffer any such inhuman action
tion to pass by unpunished - It is no small encouragement
to the ill-inclined to go on with their wicked
pranks when they find they are taken no notice of.
I am obliged to thee My dear Cousin for thy Letter which
I received this (Third-day) morning by which I am glad
to find thou hast such fine diversion riding about - That
thou hast seen Hannah & found her to thy wish is
also very pleasing to me I make no doubt but that
has been one of the most pleasing interviews thou
hast enjoyed for some time. We have got no new Boys since
thou left this - Russell is returned & lies with Jos: Beale at the
Retreat - Stanley lay there for two nights while some thing was
ailing

Jos. Bob Baxter presents his love Five hundred &
Fifty times he has taken a very great liking to the Hawk
from thy recommendation as he wishes whatever belongs to
him may please thee - Pray be so kind as to steal it & bring it
him in one of thy Pockets. Dalton is in high Spirits with
the thoughts of going to Dublin next week he gets up
every day & in my opinion looks much better than he
did. I suppose thou art long ago tired of this worthless
scrowl - therefore not to tire thee any more I conclude with
Duty to my Aunt love to Cousin Peggy, Sam & Becky
of which accept a large share from
thy loving Cousin
W: Rayner
Fitz Gerald T Nicholson &c
present their love & are thankful
for thy remembrance of them,
Fifth-day the 8th
Pray write soon.
William Rayner
Ballitore 3/8 mo: 1776.

