A very favourite amusement here is Sleighing
& it has been uncommonly good this winter, owing
to repeated heavy falls of snow; & cold weather.-
Sleighs of various shapes & colours, are driving thro'
the streets from Morning 'till night, & the jingle of
the bells which hang round the horses necks to give
evidence of their approach, adds in no small degree
to the liveliness of the scene. The rapidity & smoothness
of the motion, renders sleighing an agreeable mode
of travelling - but a person requires a superabundance
of clothing to repel the cold, & a few companions must
also be added to create pleasur[deletion]e[/deletion]able feelings.- Six
fit very comfortably in a two horse vehicle & the animals
have not much difficulty in drawing it.
A sleigh with four horses arrived here last evening
in 15 hours from Albany, (including all stops) a
distance of 170 miles - this is really expeditious.
It is rather singular that the immediate vicinity
of Newyork affords no good places for skating.-
The ice formed in the rivers, is too rough for that
purpose, & it is principally large, floating, masses.
As yet, the thermometer has not sunk below zero.
I am attending a course of Lectures on
Chemistry & Natural Philosophy, delivered by John
Griscom, three evenings in the week. I find the
former much more interesting than I had anticipated,
& derive a good deal of instruction & rational
amusement from it. - We are at present treating
on the Acids, & at our last lecture had some pleasing

experiments performed. - Some weeks ago, while
on the Gass's, we were quite amused with an Illustration
of the practical effects of "exhilarating
gas" or "nitrous oxyde".- J. Griscom administered several
doses to some members of the class;- for this purpose
he filled a bag with it, to which was attached a
wooden pipe, & each person after first exhausting his
lungs of atmospheric air, breathed thro' this pipe
keeping his nostrils closed with his fingers.- The gas
operated very quickly - but differently on each - one
danced & sung, another kept bowing & laughing,
a third gazed around with the air of one who had
just fallen from the skies, & a fourth continued to
huff away very eagerly, long after the bag was removed
from his mouth.- In five minutes the fit is over. -
I was induced to exhibit myself, & was not among
the least merry.- I lost all control over my feelings,
experienced a delightful sensation, & imagined I was
rising into the air.- I danced about & laughed
in great glee, but could not articulate a word
until after the gas had expended its powers
I experienced no depression of spirits after it, but on the
contrary, felt exhilarated the whole evening.- One
of the Gentlemen present asked me, where I imagined
myself to be, while I appeared so happy? I replied -
"Either in Heaven or Ireland, but I cannot distinctly
"remember which".- Some years ago at these lectures
a very plain, orthodox old friend, was induced to
take the gas, in the presence of a pretty large audience

When the bag was removed from him,- he placed himself
in a dancing attitude, & after throwing his
Beaver into the air, exclaimed, with the most ludicrous
gravity of countenance & voice "I really feel
disposed unto a little merriment"!.- He was the
principal figure in a Caricature, afterwards drawn
& entitled "Fashionable mode of getting drunk."-
John Griscom regretted that his time did not allow
him to visit Ballitore - & so do I, as I am certain
you would have been pleased with him. Joseph
Humphreys became acquainted with him. There is
some probability that he will publish his tour thro'
Europe - but he speaks doubtfully himself. He is
a man of much observation, & would give us an instructive book.
book.-
A literary work entitled the
"Sketch Book" was commenced to be published in this
City last Summer, in numbers,- one of which appears
about every 2 months. It is written by an American
Gentleman in London named Washington Irwin, whose
talents for composition, stand as high, if not higher, than
those of any other Author which this Country has produced
The "Sketch Book" describes [deletion]describes[/deletion] English manners &
Scenery, & sometimes gives an account of adventures, which
the Author, either drew from his fancy, or really encountered.
I understand that this work has been republished
in England, & I mention it here, that thou may peruse
it, if it come in thy way, as I consider it possesses
considerable merit. Irwin, some 10 years ago, wrote
a very laughable history of Newyork from its first
foundation, in which he satirizes the venerable Dutchmen
who left their homes to settle here. It is

very well written, & for that reason, is one of the first
works put into the hands of strangers upon their arrival
here.-
I was induced a few days ago to take
up the "Munster Cottage Boy" from its title but was gravely
disappointed in the tale. There is too great a succession
of improbable adventures, to interest the feelings,
& the characters are so crowded together, as to render it
difficult for the reader to bear them all in remembrance
How inferior this novel is, to Miss Edgeworth's "Tales of Fashionable
Life"! Curran's life by his son, afforded
me a good deal of enjoyment- some of the circumstances
related in it, were new to me.
Looking over one of our Newspapers the other day
I was completely sickened by reading an account of the
burning alive of a black man in Augusta, Georgia
He had been convicted of Murder, & this mode of punishment
was awarded him! Canst thou believe
that in a Christian Country, calling itself the most enlightened
in the World, & boasting of its perfect freedom
such an outrage upon humanity should have taken place
but it is a fact. & the Editor of the paper in describing
the horrid spectacle, calmly asserts the Necessity of the
case, & feelingly hopes that it may have a beneficial
effect! - To what a debased state, must [deletion]a[/deletion] Society
be reduced, that can suffer so barbarous an infringement
upon the best feelings of our Nature.
A very important question relative to Slavery, has been
debating in Congress for some weeks past. It is, whether in
the immense tract of Country, West of the river Mississippi
Slaves are to be admitted from the other States. The
Southern or Slave-holding members, have entered very warm

