25 yards 4/4 wide linen at £3.2d p yard
2 1/2 yards of linen remnants at £2 p yd
16 yards of lawn remnants at 1s - 4d per yd-
8 yards of diaper at 1.3 p yd
£ s d
3 - 19 -2
1-5-0
1-1-4
10-0
£6-15-6
Lisburn Nov. 30th 1815
My dear Friend
I sent the linen, remnants &c on the
26th by a carrier to Dublin, directed to the care of Jas.
& Richard Garratt - The linen is 2d per yard higher priced
than thou realized, but on comparing the price sent
with some higher & lower priced linen my Father thought
it of so good a quality that I preferred sending it
instead of a price at 3 per yd. The lawn remnants are
the longest which I could procure. I was disappointed
about diaper remnants, but I sent 8 yards which
were sold at first cost on account of being cut in the
selvage in batting. My Father says thou may send
the amount to Samuel Haughton who will remit it
with another small sum at some future opportunity —
In the parcel with the linen I sent a small packet
to M Haughton which I shall thank thee to take
the trouble of forwarding —

My Father has not had a reply to his letter to E S Lees
the accounts must therefore remain as they are. He
thinks there must be a mistake in 14 [insertion]Magazines[/insertion] only being charged
for the last year, & he requests thou may ascertain
whether M French received the last five.
As to the Newry Magazine about which thou
inquires I can say little as I have never had the curiosity
to read a single number. I have some slight acquaintance
with the editor, James Stuart; when he was
publishing a volume of poems he spent a few days with
us. He was extremely consequential, & affected to have
an uncommonly fastidious taste in poetry, & to be
profoundly learned. I was highly amused by him; he
would sometimes read a little poetry or the newspaper
for our edification, but he regularly stopped to explain
every [underline]hard[/underline] word with which he met. This was amusing
enough when we were his auditors, but when he began
his explanation to my Father he was truly ridiculous.
I also am acquainted with the character of most of the
other writers for the Newry Magazine, & I should not be
inclined to think too highly of their literary talents - From
what I have heard I suppose the Magazine is mostly
a selection from their periodical publications; if so a pair
of scissors is merely required to fill up their pages. I saw

the number of the Ballitore Magazine which Joseph
Barcroft brought from Ballitore.
My Father has been better for a week or
two past, & I am willing to hope that with care he
will continue so — His strength is certainly much diminished,
& sometimes disease is very strongly
marked in his countenance, yet if he continues not
to get worse in the winter months we will have every
reason to look forward with hope to an amendment
of his health. He desires me to say that Lee's machine
is in great disrepute, & that he thinks flax
cannot be prepared with advantage in this mode -
The linen board meet next week, & I believe there will
[unclear][/unclear] several communications from linen
drapers to prove the futility of the plan.
Has thou seen an account of Gall & Spurzheim
system of Craniology? Spurzheim has been in Belfast,
but he did not get encouragement to commence a
course of lectures - He exhibited his knowledge in private
companies, & examined the heads of boys in some
of the public schools, & pronounced with confidence his
opinion of some of their qualifications; by this means
he will perhaps, like a prophet, be the means of the fulfillment
of his own prophecies, as I can well imagine
how a predestination, or a person whose [deletion][/deletion] judgement

has not been fully matured by the exercise of the reasoning
faculties, may be led to rely on the fanciful theory
of a Craniologist, but like the reveries of Lavater, Messmer,
Perkins & the advocates of Mnemonics, craniology
will only be the passion of a day -
Since I sent Miss Nicloux's prospectus
I have heard that she is better known by the name of
Stanley, a name she assumed as an actress, but in consequence
of a quarrel with the Manager of the Belfast
Theatre, she retired from the stage, resumed her name of
Nicloux, & commenced teacher of the French & Italian languages -
I hope Margaret Shackleton continues better - When
Betty has leisure I hope to hear from her - Thine very truly S Hancock
Mary Leadbeater
Ballitore
ansd 29/6 mo: 1816

