P. 93.			A. S. to his Son
					Ballitore 28th of Fourthmonth 1771.
			Son Richard,
				He from whom we have every thing that deserves to be called truy good, this morning hath been pleased to open a little nook for poor me to sit and wait among his servants, tat at times are mercifully favoured with some small degree of health and strength to wrestle for the blessing, and the continuation of a sense of his presence to accompany through their pilgrimage to the very end of it. Oh, my dear son, sincerity of heart is necessary, and is, I am sure, too much wanting among the professors of the very truth, as it is manifested and revealed unto a small remnant in this very poor nation. Alas! my son, in the sense I have at present of the declension, their number is become so very small, that a skilful child might write them. Methinks, while I see the tares, the grand enemy has sown in this drowsy state, fastening to the weighty grain, or endeavouring to do it, and choking thorns and fowls of the air making sore devastation among the seed of the kingdom, methinks I see thee sitting close by the willing in Israel, whose hearts, through infinite mercy, the Lord is moving upon, and stirring up to work for Him in the day afforded. Though at this time my mind chiefly points to thyself, I by no means forget my daughter, thy Consort and fellow-labourer, to whom remember me dearly; also be sure with much affection to S. F. and J. S. Nor do I want love for my other friends, to whom thou mayst present it.
					Thy father
						A. S.


	P. S. Since I wrote the above, I have to acknowledge the receipt of thy letter, and am much obliged to thee for the intelligence thereby imparted to us, and hope you will still continue to remember us you left at home. I believe I should be exceedingly glad to see my endeared friend S. F. if it should be so ordered that he came this way; but much desire that nothing may unfit or render him incapable of attending his more weighty service at London, where I have understood he intends going.
A. S.
