My dear Cousin,                                                  Ballitore: 5/8 month 1777.
			Thou need not look about for an excuse to write to me: thy letters are always acceptable, & I think myself obliged by thy correspondence. I would have replyd sooner to thy last, & wrote often I believe, but that I knew thy sister Watson sent thee constant intelligence of thy poor Sister Abbys state. I understand she is recruiting finely at Derrygarran. My daughter Peggy was so stout after her illness as to ride to the Quarterly Meeting of Waterford & back again behind her brother Robert. I hear she is no worse, but rather better for the Journey. We are tolerably well here (through mercy) only that the elder of two sons of Thomas Wilys who are here, is ill I believe in a worm-fever, but I hope not dangerously: his Father & Mother are come to see him. Louisa Strangman is also here on a visit to us, & John Conran happening to come with E: Robinson & E: Pike to this place has pitched his tent here for some days past. he lays close siege to Louisa, but does not seem yet to make any breach with his batteries. I understand Jimmy Abells companion (his brother-in-law) is returned, Jimmy still has kept the field; but his success seems uncertain. Neither do I know what John Grubb will do with his suit: I believe he is undetermined when to go to England. My son (as far as appears) bears his share in the common calamity with the patience of a Philosopher: he is much obliged by thy good wishes for him: indeed he is happy in the general love & esteem: & my mind has often been humbly thankful that having but one son he should be preserved so hopeful, & that the Extensiveness of his knowledge in human Erudition has not lifted him above the pure principle of the Saving Truth. The visitations of heaven to our poor children are indeed amongst the capital Favours of our great Benefactor conferred upon us. Our people still at Clonmel: sister much as at home I suppose. Betty Shannon is to go to Cork in a while to live with & assist Samuel Neales wife. Sam Grubb returned home from Ballinasloe, he did not call here. I understand they are about removing soon to their new house in Clonmel. Robert Dudley is married, a good meeting (tis said) on the occasion: he is expected home about the first of next month. Thomas Greer has wrote me about the visitors expected from England. I have forwarded his account to be laid before some friends in Dublin, & desired that their conclusion about the arrangement of the meetings for them may be brought to our Province ^Quarterly^ Meeting, which begins this week at Moat. Its expected that Mabel Wigham & E: Robinson will be both there. If Thomas Wilys son grows better, I believe he will also go thither with us. I heard as if Thomas Greer was likewise to be there. Thou hast heard I doubt not that James Clibborn has had a (second) apoplectick fit.
	Company being here, & a variety of circumstances causing, I cannot at pleasure present give thee page for page for thy letter. I have a long letter from dear sister Esther Tuke, she is going about (I believe) or has been with her gospel-net among other people.
	Thy John is bravely: if it was not to his mother I would call him a lovely & beloved boy. I do not know a finer of his age I think. Farewell, my dear Cousin, excuse this Rhapsody. Accept of all our dear love. Make thy little ones (thy children) remember us. We salute thy honoured Father, & his son James whom I often think of with pleasure. I suppose E: Robinson had a good deal in her budget for thee in publick & private. I hope it will not be all thrown away upon thee. I hear also agreeable Reports of thy uncle Thomas. My guests send you their kind greetings. I do not hear much of any great alteration about Eben Miller. I do not suppose Lydia any way contracted to any person. I had a good deal of discourse with her & her father about it several weeks ago, nothing new since. I am easy with what has been done, & with what we leave undone in this affair, believing both is right, though I am far from thinking we are infallible.
			I am my dear Debbys
								    truly affectionate Friend & kinsman
Richard Shackleton.
