My dear Cousin,                                                 Ballitore: 15/3 month 1777.
	Thine of 22nd ultimate (as all thine) was very acceptable. We are pleased that thou was better of thy complaint when thou wrote. Old-age to be sure will come upon us in a short time, if we be not first numbered to the silent Grave. I wish we may all, while strength & capacity is afforded, make good use of the present time, which only is ours. An insidious enemy lies at the door of our hearts, & our houses, waiting for an entrance. It is his delight to break down the fence, & man the beauty of the pleasant garden, which Divine culture has made comely & fruitful. We ourselves (I believe) are conscious of our weakness & deficiencies, & yet (I think) have a grounded hope that our offspring are under the gracious notice of Providence, & as they walk in Fear & Circumspection likely to do well  I have a letter this morning from Joseph Jacob of Waterford: he complains of the weight of business, his wife has had a cold, & some nervous afflictions: they are rather a puny & delicate couple, & some of their children also, I believe. I hope they bear the Removal of their daughter pretty well. Joe writes he had a very agreeable letter lately from Esther Tuke. lately. That dear woman strives to keep up a correspondence with her friends, feeling (I doubt not) her mind often replenished with a Renewal of best Love towards them. he says his aunt Watson is fine & hearty, intends shortly to leave Waterford, when she has been for sometime past - We are here (I think) generally of our best fashion as to health, my wife not quite free from complaints: Sister Carleton better of late: thy mother stouter (I believe) if not younger than thy self. her company is very agreeable, but Abby seems to begrudge us so much of it. I asked her last night had she any commands, as I intended writing: she said none but her love to you all. I thought to have mentioned above, that I understand Thomas Strangman (who lodges at his son Joshuas in Waterford) is finely recovered as to his intellects & faculty of conversation, has come down stairs, but I do not hear has yet been out, or at Meeting. We heard lately from Clonmel, Sam Grubbs family (of which my daughter Debby is a part) were pretty well. Peggy seems to like her servants, one of them (of Abbys recommending) is likely to be very useful. We also had letters lately from Tanners end, the amiable lasses there mostly well, their mother very poorly, their brother John has had an Excrescence cut off from the inside of his eye-lid: there is rather an apprehension (I believe) of its growing again, but a hope that it may be dispersed. As to John Grubbs suit, the success is altogether uncertain. I do not remember to have heard that Joe Richardson put in for that prize. Beating about the bush, as they call it, & hedge-fighting is not the thing in matrimonial campaigns; if a young-man, after proper deliberation, concludes to seek for a wife, let him declare himself & his love, & begin at the right end. He has no right to expect the Crown except he strive lawfully (1 Tim. 2.5. Theres Chapter & verse for thee.) Samuel Neale & his companion (I believe) are by this time returned home, after paying (I believe an acceptable) visit to several parts of this province & their own. James Doyle a friend of Cork meeting has been visiting some part of our province as a Minister, & I doubt not but has been well received. Hannah Pagan very poorly. Eben Miller of Edenderry expected to leave this stage of mortality very shortly. Doubtless ye have been speedily advised of the Bankruptcy of John Holmes of Dublin. I am much convinced to hear that the affairs of James Freeman, a valuable Friend in London, are in a bad way: his principal creditors are (I suppose) his wifes uncle & aunt, i.e. Dr. Fothergill & his sister Anne. I had much love for that Friend, & hear he bears his affliction very hardly. I understand Lydia Hawksworth & Catherine Phillips have been both very indifferent in health. Old Anthony Robinson of Moat is deceased. Thy John is (I thank Providence) well & hearty: his Quondam master (a very innocent, hopeful young man, I think), is with us: he & John I suppose set off the latter end of the ensuing week for Derrygarran. I make no doubt but that Jonathan will pay proper attention to the child in every respect. I believe there is a very good harmony subsisting between my Peggy & her neighbour sister-in-law. Contention & Shyness between friends or relations is an element which well-minded people would be hard set to breathe in. I hear little of honest Robert Lecky of late. My Cousin Betty Haughton & he are in & out (I believe) by turns; he knows her to be honest, true & faithful; she knows him to be worthy, valuable & princely; so they must put up with some trepidation. I am in hopes T: G: & thy uncle will soon make it up. Good friends are sometimes not so guarded in their Expressions as could be wished, especially when they are sensible of having the general prejudice in their own favour. I wish we might all in every station take the masters counsel, Be ye wise as serpents, harmless as doves. John Conran seems hard set to digest the letter which I sent him through thee. There was, it seems, some comparison in it about the stars: whether he thought it too far fetched, or an ostentatious display of my learning, or an unfair deduction I know it; but he does not relish it well, has wrote me about it, & given me the trouble of making a long Reply to him, a Trouble indeed which I did not want; however thought it best, neither to leave him uninformed where I believed he wanted Instruction, nor tie myself under underserved censure. I have a regard for him, & wish his welfare for his own sake & that of the Cause; otherwise I would be content to let him enjoy his Oddities & singular opinions, for I have so many very agreeable correspondents, who are so kind as to favour me in this way, that it is with difficulty I can find leisure to make decent returns to them. And yet I love dearly to hear from my absent friends, & cannot hope for that pleasure, unless I send them a line now & then in reply.
	All our dear love is to you all. has thy Father got Lelands history of Ireland yet? how does he like it? Besure send thy Peggy to us; & come thyself if possible, Perhaps I would not ramble away to England this summer, but have some of thy company here. I have wrote a rambling letter, just as things occurred to
thy truly affectionate kinsman
Richard Shackleton
