Ballitore: 9/4month 1780.
	I am long in my dear Cousin Debbys debt, but she will excuse - I have been for some time past from home, & home is the place from whence to write to our friends - I accompanied our dear friend James Gough from hence to Waterford, & he consented to go with me from thence to Clonmel. We were, going & coming, in the county Wexford. James had in the course of the little tour very good service in the exercise of his gift - he was very lively & acceptable in the province-meeting of Waterford, as also in other publick meetings & private families. We were not in the parts where thy Relations live in the county Wexford, but saw some of them at the Monthly Meeting of Enniscorthy, & heard that the rest were much in usual health. Peggy, & friends & relations at Clonmel generally well - Peggy herself bravely, her children finely, & she likely to have increase to her family about the middle of next month. Through the kindness of good Providence they seem to be going on well; & to prosper in every sense - John Grubb's only child looks to be in a declining way - uncertain how it may turn out with her. Jo Grubb has three sons, the eldest a very fine boy - he has a valuable wife - & there is a colony of valuable friends there - Robert Dudley's wife has brought him a very beautiful, healthy-looking daughter - the mother has got her health finely some time past, & Robert is likely to have a second brood, perhaps of daughters, as the first was of Sons. Molly Jacob had not got to her own house when I was at Waterford, but seem'd well pleased with her situation. I suppose her father is gone over some time past, would be pleased with any intelligence respecting his welfare & progress, which thou may receive. Since I returned home from that excursion, I made another with my wife & daughter Molly to our province Meeting at Mountrath. I hope the Meetings of Worship were favoured seasons. I thought the Meeting of discipline rather flat. Certificates were signed there for Mary Ridgway & Jane Watson, to visit Great Britain - I suppose they intend after the half year's Meeting for the yearly Meeting of London - afterwards to proceed on their visit - a great undertaking - I believe Molly to be a Minister of the Gospel, & Jane (who I hope is one too) seems allotted to take care of her - he "sent them two & two before his face into every city & place, whither he himself would come". Our next Quarterly Meeting is to be at Enniscorthy 27th proximo - so that when thou comes to next half-year's Meeting & takest a turn to see thy friends hereaway, & up the country, thou may see thy good old uncle & aunt perhaps, & be at the Quarterly Meeting - How nicely & conveniently things fall out! Do; settle it accordingly - I have a Letter lately from Martha Routh (formerly Winter) of Manchester, advising that our friends Chrissy Hustler & Phebe Marshall from Yorkshire intend to pay us a religious visit, & to be at our next National Meeting. This I think is glad tidings. The former was Chrissy Hird, whom I was long ago acquainted with, & then thought her the most accomplish young woman that I had ever seen, as to both civil & religious conduct & appearance. She has since submitted to the Great Hammer of Formation, which I suppose has reduced her to nothing as to Self, &polished & prepared & qualified her for service in the church: so that she is willing to become as it were yet more vile, & contemptible & pass through trials & tribulations for the Gospels sake - The other friend I do not know. I believe thou knows it was this Chrissy, who declined Dr Fothergills suit.
	I had also a Letter not long ago from our dear friend Esther Tuke, who was pretty well in health, & remembers thee & thy brother James with near affection. I would transcribe her salutation & remarks for you, but think to put her Letter in my pocket for your perusal, if we should be so favoured as soon to meet in Dublin - I purpose to send herewith an Epistle of Thomas Colly's, which she sent me a Copy of.
	It is time to say something of health. We are pleased to understand by latest accounts that ye are favoured with pretty good share - we are also partakers of like favour. While I was abroad lately, we lost poor James McConaughty, he had been an infirm man, often ailing, yet at last was snatched away with about a week's illness - we have taken his Widow to us, & I have set the Mill, which he super-intended for me. I believe the spirit of the poor man enjoys more Quiet than it had here, for he was well-meaning, well-minded & inoffensive - his widow took the separation very hardly, but is recruiting & I hope will be comforted - I know not whether thou remembers' Molly Nowlan, an old servant of dear sister Carleton's - she fell into a decay with us some time ago, & died within these few days at a Relations of hers - There is no likelihood (I suppose) of thy poor uncle Thomass Recovery - All these dispensations confirm to us & should seal upon our minds useful monitions - how uncertain is life - how precarious the tenure of the dearest enjoyments of earth - how abject it is to be puddling & groveling all our lives in the muck of this world, without properly seeking to lay up treasure in heaven for ourselves individually, & answering the ends of our Creation & of the divine Visitation, by the performance of our several relative duties in society - Thy Mother has favoured us with her company this week or two past. On the 8th instant she completed her 80th year I suppose. She is finely for the most part in health, lively & pleasant. Our girls are delighted with her company. She wants to return this week to Athy, says she has business in Carlow - I understand Jonathan Carleton has been ill there with the Rheumatism - We have been talking about my going to next Yearly Meeting of London, & taking my Debby with me to pay a visit to her Cousin Sally Birkbeck. I have not yet come to a conclusion in my own mind about it, but hope that at the National Meeting I may be favoured with some little sense what will be most suitable for me to do, being pretty passive & will-less in the matter. Jonathan Hill has revived his suit to Jonathan Clendemans daughter.
	As thou art a near & dear friend, before I conclude, I must, in confidence of thy prudence & present secrecy, communicate to thee an affair which has happened since I begun this letter - Thy brother Sam came hither last evening in company with Tommy Chandlee, the former to ask for my Debby in marriage for the latter - I have taken the matter into my solid consideration, & humbly hope to be favoured in my own mind with such satisfaction respecting it, as I have heretofore received in like cases. I have long entertained a good esteem for Tommy & know Debby to be a valuable lass. The Will of Him who knows what is best for each of us, & the future, as well as the past & present, is what we should humbly & diligently seek to be favoured with the intimation of; he often graciously condescends to help the helpless, & to cast up a way for those who have no dependence on their own dexterity & craft. Well prayed David saying, "Teach me thy way, O Lord, & lead me "in a plain path." May this, my dear Cousin, be our happy experience for us & our's, that we may be enabled to get through this life acceptably, not seeking or desiring great things in this life, but to walk acceptably in his sight with whom we have to do, & so be prepared at the conclusion of time for a place of undisturbed Rest.
	We all join in dear love to thee & thine. Our dear love to thy father, & brother James, likewise thy cousin James Moreton (I believe I once styled him thy uncle, erroneously.) Thy Mother affectionately salutes you all, & wishes to see thee - Cousin Sam & Tommy left us this morning.
		I am, my dear Cousin,
					very affectionately thine
Richard Shackleton.
