My beloved sister Margaret,
that thou should think I waited for a reply to
my letter before I wrote to thee again. - If I thought
my writing would prove consoling to thee, I surely
would try to write oftener than I do, – but it
is because I believe we are upon a comfortable
footing with each other that I make free
with thee. Sister Mary received thine the-other
-day, for which she is obliged; her little Elizabeth
has been ailing of late, with a sore mouth, but
is bravely again. Some of Abram's children have
been poorly too. The weather I suppose is trying
to weakly people, – my mother feels it so, – yet
keeps out of bed, & gets to meeting at home pretty
constantly; she sends thee dear love, & wishes
for some of thy company, hoping thou wilt bear
it in mind: - we have been thinking & speaking
about our Carlow quarterly meeting, but we
are doubtful of young Thos. gratifying us then
with the wished for sight of his dear mother.
I have a letter, a few days ago, from Rebecca
Jones, who knew not when she wrote of our
sore loss: - she sends love to, "the Grubb's at Clonmel,"
& sent a sweet account of dear Wm. Mathews -
The Retreat: 10/12 mo: 1792.
I would not like
I

I mean to coppy, at the other side, a copy she
sent me, which thou may communicate as thou
thinks proper. Thy Richd. is finely, & a pleasant
little fellow he is: - I expect he will write
thee a long letter by J: B, who has much engaged
the boys affections, I expect they will be sorry
after him, Richd. was telling us, "that Joss will
just go home to see how they are, & settle his
affairs, & be with them here again at the time
of the troubles". We all unite (Molly Hudson's
particularly to thee,) in dear love to brother
Samuel & thee, with your loved children, &
the dear young women at cousin Benjm.'s, particularly
their Aunt Taylor, upstairs.
I am with encreased near & dear love
they very affectionate sister.
S: Shackleton.

"William Matthew's requested the following might
"be sent to Rebecca Jones - which was taken down
"from his mouth by a friend then present. - After
"a time of great weakness, he said - "I want one of
"you, soon after my change, to write to Rebecca Jones,
"& inform her of it, & request her to write to my
"friends in Europe & remember my very dear love
"to them, for to some of them I believe this language
"to be proper, viz: In my bonds & afflictions have
"I begotten you in the Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ.
"adding, that several of them could testify,
"that he had been made instrumental
"through the Lord's mercy, in turning them
"from darkness to Light, & from under the power
"of Satan to serve the living God! - that it was
"the Lord's doings, & marvellous in his eyes! - That
"his mind had been, for several days past, much
"& remarkably in Europe, & seemed to pass along
"through almost all the meetings that he was at
"when there, remembering how it was with him
"in most of them. – That he wanted RJ to write,
"& communicate his affectionate regard to friends
"there."
R: J writes S: S. "I give thee full liberty to expose
"the above, to such friends as thou thinkest
"are included in the dear man's legacy of love."

10/12
10/12 mo 1792
1792
S Shackleton
William Matthews
Margaret Grubb.
Clonmel.

