Waterford 9th mo: 1st: 1792
Permit me, my Dear & honoured Friend thus to mingle
my tears with thine, and those of the family, on an event which
has already caused, and will yet cause many to weep! I scarcely
know how to refrain from some expression to You, -and yet the stroke
was so sudden, so unexpected & so severe, that words seem to
fail, and the mind resorts to silence, where it feels the greatness
of it's loss! The Churches loss, the loss to his family, to his friends,
and to individuals! - and surely no individual next to his near
connections has more cause to mourn, than my self! I have
felt, have experimentally known on this aweful, humbling occasion,
that there is a friend that sticketh closer than a Brother; or
one that standeth in the same degree of natural relationship;
for, within the space of two weeks I have been deeply tired in
this respect, by the unexpected information of the sudden departure
from this uncertain life, of a Beloved Sister, whose being here, terminated
the 14th of last month, by which affecting dispensation my poor mind
was, as may be supposed afresh plunged into affliction! but now,
I feel, as tho' I was deprived of a still nearer relation, as tho' my
Father in every sence, was taken from me; - and therefore, I
am qualified in some sort to Simpathize with thee my Beloved
friends, who perhaps little expected to have been the mournful

survivor; and with his Beloved Children, who were often the subject
of his humble rejoicing! For ourselves, and for our children
we may, weep: - may I believe allowably do so: - but on his
account there is rather cause for gladness, & for thanksgiving;
his sun haveing set in unclouded brightness, and his prepared
spirit, I fully believe [insertion]is[/insertion] safely centered in unchangeable felicity:
Thou knows any my ancient, honoured friend, his beloved Companion
& fellow-helper, in every good word & worth: -ye, each of ye my
Beloved's know, where to look for consolation, even to the Lord
God of Elijah; -and may his precious mantle, even a double portion
of his Spirit rest upon You! my mind is not in a state to
enlarge, nor have I been able to say what I would wish to
communicate; I have wished to be personally present with you,
but being likely to be prevented for want of a suitable mode
of conveyence, it seemed [deletion][/deletion]as tho' I could not forbare to offer
in this season of conflict some little token of my feeling, simpathizing
remembrance of a family justly so dear to me: - and shall
at a suitable time [insertion]be glad[/insertion] to hear from some of you, particulars respecting
the indisposition & close of my dear departed Friend, with which I
am unacquainted. And remain with dear love to thy self, &
each of thy family, including Abrahams and William's, in which my
Jane desires to unite--
Affectionately thine
Mary Watson

WATERFORD
Elizabeth Shackleton
Ballitore
4
Mary Watson To E. S.
Waterford: 1/9 mo: 1792.

