Ballitore: 27/1 month 1782

My dear Cousin,

	I received thine & our dear friend James Moretons Letters by John Webb, who also gave me a detail of Proceedings there very distressing -- Poor John! I wonder how he holds out -- he must have a good stock of spirits I think, & innocence on his side -- he made a stay only of a few hours here, being in haste to Waterford -- I wish his preservation & prosperity, & that this wayward affair may not hurt him any way -- I wanted him to wave [sic] any title to membership in society before, & to be admitted (with his family) at once a Member by Waterford-meeting -- but I find neither he, nor Friends of Waterford are satisfied with that proposal. So the matter is likely to be discussed by Friends at the half-years Meeting, where I trust the great Prophet will cast Salt into the spring & heal the waters, which indeed at present seem very bitter -- My friends are very kind & partial to me in inviting me to their general Meetings North & South -- & I love much to see my dear friends every where -- but where there is a likelihood of contention with spiritual wickedness in high places, I think it unsafe to venture, without an apprehension of duty, lest I should do no good, but be beaten & sent away empty -- and all the satisfaction I might have in my own mind would be, Who hath required this at thy hands? -- Nevertheless, I would have those who are engaged in the warfare not to be disheartened, to keep on the foundation which standeth sure, the feeling sense of divine favour & approbation, to let that mind be in them which was in Christ Jesus, to seek to be cloathed with his spirit, & as this is their armour, they must & will get the victory. Excellent is the Apostles advice, Let nothing be done through strife, or vain-glory, but in lowliness of mind let each esteem other better than themselves -- Oh, how I have mourned on account of these divisions there! & have earnestly petitioned for preservation of some, whom I thought in great danger of being drawn from the firmament by the tail of the great dragon.
	No doubt thou hast heard by various means long before now of the loss of our dear friends Edith Lovell & Joseph Sparrow. They embarked 28th ultimate on board the Elizabeth-packet bound from Cork to Bristol -- Jemmy Abell wrote me that he staid with them aboard that night & left them next day about one oclock, as the ship was getting under way -- they were in good spirits, Edith quite easy in going in that vessel -- on 30th in the evening I understand it struck on a Sand-bank in Bristol-channel (not far from Bridgwater) & bulged -- About 13 or 14 of the crew mostly mariners got into the boat, & after toiling all night, & running great risk were (as it were miraculously) preserved & got ashore -- As the vessel lay, Edith could not be got out of her into the boat, & Joseph would not leave her -- when the vessel drifted off the bank, she sunk in such deep water, that even her masts were covered next high water -- About 24 were lost, among them the Captain, who is blamed for having ordered the course too much to the Southward, & for having discouraged the passengers from venturing in the boat -- but his own life paid the forfeit of his mistake -- his body was found, but I have not yet heard of the bodies of our dear friends being found, though a reward of 5 Guineas has been bidden for each of them. Josephs Mistress (Molly Davis) happened to be at Bridgwater, accompanying a friend (Waring) on a visit to those parts, when an account of the loss of this vessel at the harbours mouth reached that place. What a varied, multiplied scene of distress is here! I know not but Edith left a husband & seven children -- Jo Sparrow was the favourite child of his mother, whose husband is almost totally blind. The young-man about being married to a very valuable woman, who (perhaps with her family) will have to reproach themselves for having procrastinated the accomplishment of the affair to this lamentable issue. I believe the match had been agreed on between the parties above a year, & yet it was not to have been consummated (I heard) till next 5th month.
	We are generally favoured with tolerable health -- We thought young Abraham would hardly live for a while, he was so poorly -- but now he seems to thrive well -- Peggy has been ill with a cold, but I hope by this time better -- I had a Gospel-letter lately from dear Sally Taylor, lively as ever, in old-age -- also from John Thorp & Matty Routh, all of Manchester -- they were well & full of Love -- Love, the great cement of the brother-hood, in which I will take leave, desiring it may more & more abound among us, & in us all. Farewell, my dear Cousin & Friend
	Richard Shackleton.

[pencil endorsement]
Loss of
Edith Lovell & Jo Sparrow

