Dublin the 10 of the 8th mo 1777
My Dear Molly
A convenient opportunity did not
offer since my return from the Country, or I would not
so long have defferd following the dictates of Friendship
I assure thee it was not for want of inclination, but I have
now found out one who I believe will deliver it into thy own
hands, no less than Cousin Jonathan Haughton
I believe Peter wrote you that we got home well the
evening of the day we left you, and found all our friends
evening of the day we left you; and found all our Friends
pretty well. we had the pleasure to find Cousin Betty
Dawson had got a son. I was to see her last sixth day
she looked almost as well as if nothing had ailed [insertion]her[/insertion] Thomas
(for so I believe they propose to call him) is a fine Boy
What thee Cousin Sam Carlton told us at Ballitore
about four men seen to be hung in this street was too
true: [deletion]it[/deletion] they were executed on seventh day last. it would
be in vain for me to attempt to describe that shocking
scene. I just saw them coming but could stay no longer
I came & stayed in the Back parlour with my aunt

[deletion][/deletion] tho the door was shut between the two parlours we could
not but hear the screeches of the people, when the cart was
drawn away. the number of spectators in the street were
computed to be upwards of ten thousand. I am shure
if a pin had been thrown from any of the windows it
could not have got to the ground the people were packed
so close, and yet what was very extraordinary I did not hear
of any ones been hurt except one soldier who had his arm hurt
a little. a report went about yesterday that two of the men
showed simptoms of life after they were cut down but whether
it be so or not I cannot tell. but they hung but a
short time. they denied the robbery to the very last
I had a letter from my mother she mentions a
fire that happened in Cork not far from our house
which alarmed them a good deal but providentially it was
extinguished without the flames communicating to the
adjacent Houses. this is the third fire that has been in Cork
in a short time and all of them pretty near my Father's
House.-You have to be shure heard of the Death
of Anthony Robbinson of Moate he was buried last

fourth day. Sally Robbinson was very bad with a Cold
and kept her bed several days but was a good deal better when
the account came. her sister Hannah Simons seems
quite recover'd from her [deletion]late[/deletion] late indisposition
I forgot to ask thee when I was at Balletore had thee
yet composed thy countenance enough to get thy Profile
taken but I expect when thou canst and gets it done
thou will send me one of them
I hope Betty Shannon is quite recover'd of her cold
as also thy Ladyships jane. I saw Nancy Shannon the
first day before last but I suppose you have heard from
herself before now. she was not in town yesterday the morning
was so wet. the weather is much changed, it is grown exceedingly
cold, but we may expect the weather changeable now
I shall make no apology for this Letter but rely
entirely on thy good nature expecting thou will excuse
it as comes from thy sincere Friend
our love attends your Family
Jane Beale

Jane Beale
Dublin 10/3 mo. 1777.
Answered 28/4 mo:-
p Sally
Mary Shackleton
Ballitore

