Ballitore: 23/11 month 1784.

My dear Cousin Debby,

	I have been rather uneasy lest thou should think hard of my not writing to thee on the occasion of thy late trials. Though I seem to have much leisure, yet my time is pretty closely occupied with one thing or other, & I imagine thou cannot think me indifferent to any thing of consequence that concerns thee or thine. I think it was at Clonmel (whither I went to pay the last offices to the remains of my worthy kinsman John Grubb) that I first heard of poor Josephs indisposition. he was a singular young man, who carried up to manhood the innocence & simplicity of a child -- Surely if that state be the condition which alone qualifies for admittance into the kingdom, we have the most well-grounded hope that his innocent spirit is at rest for ever -- he was indeed more fit for heaven than earth -- & yet Infinite Wisdom saw meet that he should arrive at maturity of age, & then be removed I doubt not to a better place & better society. However he was, the dispensation of his removal was trying to thee -- it opened former wounds, & brought into the house of sorrow -- But if the Cause & the Effect were ordered in Infinite Wisdom, it is enough for us so to believe -- then we may be assured that all has been ordered aright -- In the same Wisdom thy only surviving son has been since affected with illness -- it has proved consistent with the Divine Will that he is spared a little longer to thee. May the Lords tender Mercies, as well as Judgments, the extension of his sceptre, as well as the infliction of his rod operate the desirable end of yoru being all brought into that lovely, humble, resigned state, which is acceptable to our great Creator -- James is the successor of worthy ancestors, & if he should live, & live as he ought, a considerable weight is likely to devolve upon his shoulders, a concern of greater importance than the concerns of this life, a concern for the Cause of Truth, & the support of the discipline established in our religious society; to which as he in all humility bends himself, he will experience the blessing of his progenitors to rest upon him, & his hands made strong by him who was their God. I doubt not but he, as well as William & Peggy, have made a right choice. May they be enabled by the renewings of Good to their minds to keep to it; for many things in the course of time would obtrude to defeat the work, the cares, the vanities of this life, & enervating, spiritual indolence. From all which may they all be happily & graciously preserved, & you be long spared together (if it be the Lords will) to be a comfort to one another!
	Molly tells me she lately received a Letter from Cousin Peggy, & that James is finely recruiting, which we are much pleased to hear; but much concerned that Nancy Pike is in so poor a way, hope we shall soon have a better account of her. Poor Cousin Richard (I suppose) has been much cast down about her. I was in want of money in Dublin, so made free to apply to Cousin William -- There need be no hurry about the bond. Any time that it is convenient & opportunity offers, will answer -- I have wrote a few lines to the good old man, as it seemed grateful to him to hear from us. Be pleased to forward the Letter, having first sealed it. His Grandson & Edward Hatton were well at Mountmelick yesterday -- My Son parted with them there -- John Pemberton had had a Meeting at Prosperous (where Brooke has his Manufactory) lately I understand to pretty good satisfaction -- I apprehend he is still going on in that line. I believe Thomas Cash is sailed, or is shortly to sail for England -- Accept of all our dear love -- Present the same to thy father & children -- Remember us to poor Molly MccLaughlin -- She sorrows for her loss -- I am my dear Debbys
	truly affectionate Kinsman
		Richard Shackleton.

P. S. I spent a week at Clonmel, when I was there last. Peggys family in general pretty well, & comfortable -- Sister Grubb & Becky still make a part of the family -- We are favoured with tolerable health here, only that poor Sally has a swelling about her neck, occasioned I believe by Cold, which she got before & after the extracting of a tooth -- The tumour is like a bile, & is expected will be soon fit to lance -- a surgeon attends her -- she does not suffer much pain -- Anna Taverner still in a week way, & speechless about three weeks, caused (its said) by a paralytick affliction in her tongue -- yet we cherish a hope of her recovery -- 

