My dear Cousin,                                                Ballitore: 21/12 month 1777.
			I am obliged to thee for renewing the correspondence between us. I am glad that whether present or absent, our Friendship seems rather to increase than suffer any decay. The various pieces of little intelligence which thy letters convey are very agreeable to receive, & a particular account of thyself cannot fail of being interesting. I well know that there may be a waste of writing on the best subjects, & that a giving more than is meet, as well as with-holding more than is meet tends to Poverty: yet surely Children in the simplicity of their hearts may prattle to one another with an innocent freedom. I had a letter lately from our friend Samuel Neale, thou will see by the inclosed what a part of the subject of it is. Please seal & forward it. We are greatly favoured who enjoy Peace & Tranquility. It would be well, if we made the best use of this indulgence in seeking to take root downwards, that so when the Storm may be sufferd to beat against our habitations, we may not be greatly moved. Our Province-Meeting was lately in Castledermot. It was a more agreeable season (I think) than we sometimes have at that place. We had a number of agreeable guests: among the rest John Conran, who escorted Sally Beale hither from Mountmelick. As far as I can learn from her, he has no great prospect of success. I suppose he has by this time returned home. Since I saw thee I attended poor Ebenezer Millers funeral. By what I can learn the girls mean to continue the shop. I believe my sons affection is so strong that he would still be glad to gain the object of it: but whether he means to make another essay in form I know not. Motley Pemberton was here at the Province-Meeting, she went from hence with Dick Pike to his house at Dungar near Roscrea. My niece Jenny Fuller went with Molly Garratt to Cork: if she had not been prevailed on to go, the new married couple must have travelled by themselves. I find by Sam Neales Letter that Cousin Betty Shannon is a great favourite with them there. It is very pleasing to us that she gives content, & does not falsify our recommendation. We are favoured with tolerable health, though my wife is often, & her sister almost constantly complaining. The latter has been confined for some days to the bed, still to the chamber; but is rather better, I hope, & cheerd by the coming of her old friend thy Mother, whom my Debby brought to her yesterday from Athy. Thy Mother is bravely, sends her love, & says she left our friends well in Athy. I fancy the Report of Sir Richard Johnstons fighting a duel lately was false. I made Enquiry, & could not hear that it was fact. If he died, I doubt whether I would get my money, which has been gradually coming in. I furnish thee, according to thy desire, with thy sons account. Be pleased to balance the same, & remit when & as most convenient to thee. John is (thank Providence) well & hearty, in every respect (I think) a fine, promising boy. His old Master was among my guests at the meeting-time, I suppose he was also at Athy, but I did not hear whether he attempted to warm the old broth.
	My wife, sister, children, cousin Sam & thy son join me in dear Love to you all. We hear now & then from Peggy, they were bravely there, Peggy waxing again, I suppose.
					I am my dear Debbys very affectionate
									friend & kinsman
								       		Richard Shackleton
