My dear friend - will not I trust attribute my silence
to a diminution of affection - for verily, I have
many times intended to assure thee that you
are all the subjects of deep interest to my heart.
We were treated by some of dear E. Shackletons
company - & hoped to have had more of it. you
must have had a very anxious time when Ebenezer
was so ill. how is everything in this
life marked with uncertainty! The later
accounts from our valued aunt Abigail Pim
are discouraging. She is mostly in bed, & at times
suffers violent pain. My mother had a sweet
instructive letter from herself. Within few weeks
she seems thankful for the affliction. I was
this day telling our mutual friend Elizabeth
when she was pouring forth her complaints
that she must have this letter to read
dear Priscilla Gurney sinks - her brothers & sisters
were sent for with a wish that they might be with
her at the closing scene - & when Betsy Fry (who was the
first) got there she revived - & they now think she may
continue some weeks. [underline]she[/underline] is sweetly placid waiting
for her change. My Aunt Hannah writes that
Nathan Hunt called to visit her, and adds "his services
here & elsewhere seem marked by wise discernment
he is close - but still it so reaches the consciousness of
fitness that he is borne with - we have had him on a
first day - a publick evening meeting & at a Mo. Meeting"
Captain [unclear]Moize[/unclear] dined here to day - he met with
Nathan in London, & heard him speak in most affectionate
terms of his Irish friends. it is probable that Cousin

Watson & several friends from England will accompany
him to our Yearly Meeting -- Martha Savory
has spread a prospect of residing in France
before her Mo. Meeting - we hear of some individuals
of our Society intending for New South Wales,
the call seems going forth to the "high ways"
how awful that my other bidden question should
slight the day of visitation and invitation!
dear Mary Dudley continues to be tried with her
children. William is married by a priest to a grandaughter
of Mary Sterry's - Charles has conformed to the ceremonies
of the Establishment. Our dear John Barclay
has not been in London since his marriage. he
is about settling in Penzance for the a while
his wife is much esteemed. - Sylvanus Fox. had
been in London intending to present his marriage
with Mary Sanderson but on account of his
father's dangerous illness summoned him home
the report of Cornelius Hanbury paying his
addresses to Mary Allen - is we understand unfounded --
From loss of sight I find much difficulty in
writing and this discourages me from attempting
when my inclination leads to converse with those
I love. Thy Elizabeth may have told thee of our
thriving baby - whose likeness to his dear departed
brothers endears him to us all. he is very quiet
and interesting is now under vaccination, & had
previously gone through the Chicken pock, with
several of his brothers and sisters.. They are all blest
with good health.. may we be thankful enough -
I am better but not strong my kind Physician

Doctor Dowe was afew days ago telling me that
now I would gain strength. Surely dear
Eliza Watson was mercifully dealt with -
what a stroke! & what a weight of care devolves
on poor Elizabeth.. My Sarah has essayed
many times to address her - but feeling it a nice
matter, she suppressed several letters. I have
however persuaded her to let me send the
last. we have all felt very tenderly for
this afflicted family - Cousin Watson is now
in lodgings in Bath. her nephew George Fisher
(if living) is extremely weak. she writes of
dining with Solomon's widow & children
Nancy is comfortably settled -. Susanna
Harvey is our agreeable guest at present &
we hope to have our valued Aunt M. Grubb
tomorrow - previous to our Mo. & youths
Meetings - as her bodily strength decays she
seems to grow stronger, & brighter in the mental
powers - so much so that the last visit to
our meeting I apprehended might be a final
one. my dear Mother enjoys her society
an old and I think just proverb - "birds of a
feather flock together." - I regretted that E. Shackleton
did not get acquainted with Sarah & Jane
thy E.L got a peep of Sarah's memorandum
book - I have not - but when it is complete
hope to enjoy perusing it - she is a precious treasure
to us - my bosom friend & counsellor - but
she has too much care. I want to have her assisted
by a teacher.

Barclay & Joseph attend day schools in Clonmel
we expect my brother Clibborn to visit us in
a few days. the first time since our [unclear]presen[/unclear] to
Sally Hughes recovers slowly - her [unclear]babe[/unclear]
nicely.. We have just received a letter from
my Aunt Margaret, intimating her intention
of being here tomorrow.. My boys are
sitting eating their dinners by me - they are
very cold after riding from school. please
to remember me most affectionately to thy
sisters Chandlee & Shackleton & each of the
younger branches. thy W.L. my kind Lydia
my dear E.L. E.S. &c &c. thy worthy neighbours
Mary & Anne. I cannot stay to innumerate
as the letter is called for.. I enclose E. Watson's
which may be handed to her brother - if think
it proper so to do until an opportunity
should offer for Kilconnor - as it is not worth
postage - My dear friend farewell
tho last not least in affection is my old
steady friend Sarah Shackleton.
love to Abby & Becky
Anner Mills 3rd day 2 mo 1821
ansd. 23 / 3 mo.

