Ballitore 23/9 month 1779
		I received my dear Cousin Debby's long & acceptable Letter - I am at present far from being in such a mood as I would like to be in, when about to converse with thee, but I am loath to detain my Sally's Letter to Peggy any longer, & I am unwilling to let the packet go without a line from myself. We are favoured at home here with tolerable health: & the accounts which we receive from my daughter Molly from Dublin are also rather of a favourable kind. Our Debby is about returning home, but I believe my Wife must stay some time longer with Molly, as she is very weak, & cannot with safety be removed very soon, even though it should please Divine Providence that she continue to mend. She has already had one Relapse. Poor Ruth Nicholson I believe had the same complaint, a Bilious Fever. We had lately a visit from Joseph Wilson & his family, they staid two nights with us. They did not know till they arrived of my wifes being in Dublin. Their company was very pleasing. Thy Mother & Relations & Friends on that side I suppose much as usual - Isaac Jackson recruiting. Thy Sister Abby & my Debby have had in contemplation a visit to Jane Watson (Rathrush), which I expect they will soon get effected - I understand that dear woman has been finely of late. Dicky Jacob lay here on his return last from your country: he did not wear the countenance of a despairing Lover - he reckoned that he saw thee, &c. at Lurgan - spoke well of the Meeting for young-people, which was held there -- I doubt not but thy brother Jemmy has his buffetings & conflicts as well as other Folk. The Enemies of our own houses watch their opportunity to hurt & annoy us. The Enemies of the Crop of Christ, & of the discipline of the Church wage & have waged long war with the house of David: but whether it be Scripture or not, it is most true that) the Lamb & his Followers will get the victory. Whoever stands on the bottom & ground of Truth, & keeps in the meek, innocent spirit, will assuredly sooner or later prevail. My mind has been much distracted of late with a variety of things inward & outward. An alloy of some sort or other will imbitter the cup of life, though my domestick satisfactions are many & of a capital kind. I have not heard any thing lately immediately from John Pim's (Joshua's) family - The last accounts from my Peggy respecting her own state of health were pleasing -- Robert Dudleys wife was delivered of a daughter 1st instant & notwithstanding the mothers extreme weakness, there is hope that she & the child will do well - My poor, dear wife has (I believe) suffered a deal in Dublin on her beloved child's account: but I hope it will be consistent with Infinite Wisdom in mercy to spare us all a while longer together. I am obliged by the free communications of intelligence in thy Letters - I think thou need not fear my exposing thy own private sensations, & state, which would be very indelicate & improper; nor yet thy other remarks, but in a manner consistent with prudence & discretion. If I read a paragraph sometimes out of a Friend's Letter, I consider what & to whom I read it. We are concerned about poor Joe's eyes - would be pleased to hear that they were better - I hope he likes Johny Beale - I believe Johny is a well-minded, sensible boy, & wish he may please his Master & Mistress - to whom please to remember me affectionately when thou sees them. I would be glad that thy wrist was better, & that Peggy & James were quite stout. I am pleased that ye held your Meetings of discipline at Rathfryland - perhaps some Good may yet come out of that place. The continuance of our Christian society as a Light in the world depends much on the visited youth giving up all, surrendering at discretion; without any capitulating, in order to preserve this or that favourite object alive, which ought to be slain. We have many miscarrying wombs, half-baked cakes, flitting morning-clouds, & momentary early-dews amongst us. All states have their trials & temptations, & in faithfulness or disobedience lies our increasing strength or weakness. Little, trivial circumstances of dress or other light matters are presented by the Enemy to young & tender minds: The sure Friend & Monitor in their bosoms dehorts from entering into the temptation - here the conflict begins - army against army - the free Agents have to make the choice whether standard they will join - & in this choice is involved their safety, their preservation, & capacity for further growth in holy stability & religious experience. In their making a right choice, & in their diligent waiting for renewed help to persevere in that choice (through Divine mercy) consists their happiness in time & eternity -- Just as I had written the above (within these few minutes) arrived thy Sister Abby & Johny Chandlee, in order to know about us & our sick in Dublin. I suppose ye have had dear James Gough with you: he is often replenished with Gospel-power, & I hope will be preserved lively to the end & in the end. If thou should meet with him after the Receipt of this (which I doubt), remember me affectionately to him, also to thy worthy Father, & James Morton, when opportunity offers, & to Molly Phelps, who has made a wise choice of a good part, which I trust will never be taken from her. May she become one of those Pillars in the house, which will stand firm & erect, & go no more out! My dear love increases to our dear Peggy Christy - I know not whether she saw a little piece which I sent to my Molly when she was in Clonmel, the product of a lesiure-hour -- I send it to her inclosed ~ My good wishes attend Jo: & James. I hope Molly McLaughlin endeavours to keep up her spirits & take proper care of herself, & thereby demonstrate her attention & affection to thee & the family. Please remember me to Aby Atkinson & thy brother Sinton's family.
		I am, my dear Debby,
       						thy truly affectionate Friend & Kinsman Richard Shackleton.



