Waterford 8th month 13th 1781


My dear Uncle


        I am much obliged by thy kind favour, which I received last week, & should be ungrateful in not writing as often as I can, since my trifling letters meet with such a good reception, so far beyond their merit. I thank thee much for the various intelligence thine contained, it is very satisfactory to hear of any new occurrences among our acquaintance, & much more for thy friendly advice, which I hope I may be enabled to regulate my conduct by. I spoke to T. Fayle according to thy desire, who informs me that he has for a considerable time past detached himself entirely from the affairs of the late T:W:, & given up all papers that were in his possession, so cannot pretend to answer thy inquiries; but would recommend thy writing in a pressing manner to the Executors, which he thinks might have effect, as he apprehends they have it in their power to pay thee if they were so inclined. Pray how does thy tenant at the Mill behave now? I hope with all his peculiarities he is punctual in paying his rent: if that quality may be called one, from a failure in that respect of too many Gentry of a certain rank. Counsellor Tenison continues to attend Meetings very constantly; nay he does more for he exhorts others to the same practice; he dropped some words on that subject some time since in Meeting in a very earnest manner.These several days two or three Privateers have been discovered hovering about the Harbours mouth, which have made many captures, & which are a great detriment to the trade of this port, & likely to be more so if we do not get a greater force for the defence of the Coast, or at least a more active person that Capt. Bligh. A Vessel was taken some time since coming in, which they concluded to ransom, yet afterwards the ruffians plundered the Captains & Passengers of their private property: they stripped an elderly Gentleman, who had been, or was an Officer in the army, of his cloaths [sic] & every thing valuable: upon rummaging his trunk, when they found his Commission, they proposed throwing him over board; but were prevented by some of their superiors [sic], who had a little spark of generosity: the crews of those Privateers are said to be composed generally of Irish-men with perhaps two or three French-men in each. I hope Cousin Debby may in due time present her husband with a bouncing boy, & may happily get over the approaching illness. Rachel Penrose is likely to add to the number of her little ones in a short time. Joseph Jacob & his Wife are both in Tramore, he very seldom in town, & I believe she very rarely if at all. Joshua Strangmans Wife is gone to Mallow on account of her ill state of health & I hear has got some benefit. Please to present me affectionately to all at home, my hearty congratulations to Betty Wilson on her nuptials.
        I am, Dear Uncle,
                thy dutiful Nephew
                        William Rayner
PS.
Archibald as usual His Love to thee.


