Tent Lodge Moth 12th. 1816
The hope of being able to give a better
account of myself, had delayd my returning thanks to my
dear kind Friend, at least three months, - but as time does
little for the improvement of an old Woman, & possibly may
produce a directly contrary effect, - I will now tell you that
three months since I fell in the frost, & broke the radius
bone of my left arm, & have ever since lost the entire use
of my hand. - My Surgeon says, it frequently happens from
that kind of Fracture, that the hand never becomes useful,
but he endeavors to make me think that in another three
months I may regain a little use of it. - However this
may be, I have great cause to be very thankful that the
injury has fallen on the Limb I could best spare, & that

my daily bread depends not on the labour of my own hands.
In every affliction, some alleviation may be found, if we seek
for it. You judge rightly in supposing I should rejoice
at your Brother's triumph over Villainy, & injustice. I hope
all the family are restored to peace & comfort. I should never
doubt the firmness of Mrs Shackleton's mind to support
any misfortune - I was much disappointed in not
seeing Deborah & Ebenezer; I should gladly have shown them
my beautiful scenery, & every kind attention, - for I am
incapable of forgetting how much I received at Ballintore. -
I regret to apprehend that you still will need "Martial
troops to guard the Vale", - for I learn from all quarters, that
your Country is much disturbed; I assure you distress is
not confined to Ireland, - the Agricultural interest is suffering
beyond belief, & confidence seems banish'd between
Man & Man - Thank God! we individually sustain no injury;
our little Farm produces sufficient for our own consumption,

& no more,- so that we are not affected by the low price of Grain
&c &c - Here I find cause for Gratitude in no longer having Estates!
if I had, probably I should expend equal to their value; & in these
times, I should be forced to distress my Tenants, or suffer distress
myself, so that I think myself Richer without Land, than
with it. - You as an [underline]Irish-Woman[/underline] will not so much question
this paradox, as some of my own Countrywomen would do -
I am glad you approve of "Gay Mannering" it is a favorite
Novel of mine - I wish you would read "Discipline" -
Scott's poem of "Waterloo" is in general very flat, yet there
are a few beautiful lines in it - Our first Poet (in my opinion
Ld. Byron, has sadly disgraced himself by his treatment of
a most amiable, beautiful Wife. All his poems bear evident
 marks of a diseased Mind, & I imagine he is more than half
Mad. He has been one of the spoilt Children of Fortune, &
I believe a little correction is to be consider'd as a disguised Blessing.
I am sorry to hear of your Sister's loss of sight, pray remember
me kindly to her, & all my other Friends at Ballitore. -
I wish I could procure a Frank, but as I could not, I would
not longer defer assuring you, that I am ever Yours
[unclear][/unclear] begs her Duty - 
very Sincerely M. -

Ireland
Mrs Leadbeater
ML
Single
Ballitore
Wrote I believe 2d letter
28/1 mo: 1817

