Waterford: 17th/10 month 1780


My dear Uncle,


        I have been repeatedly obliged by thy esteemed favours & hope to be enabled to follow the good advice therein imparted. I often think with gratitude of the kind admonitions thou & my Aunt gave me before I left Ballitore. Indeed I have had many advantages: May I know the true value of them. Archibald my good Friend continues but poorly but I believe is no worse his constant sitting at the desk has I fear irreparably injured his health. He desired to be remembered with affection to thee when I wrote as did Betty Gregory I suppose she is on the mending hand though still confined to her chamber. The vessel she designed to sail in has for near a week completed her lading & is now detained by a contrary wind: The Friends [sic] going (I suppose) is out of the question except the vessel be prevented clearing out for a considerable time longer as the Friends ^(18th)^ who are on the family visit expect her company in that service before they have concluded. I had the pleasure of seeing Samuel Neale, his Wife, & several other Friends from Cork & Clonmel at the Meeting-time (the beginning of this week) I believe most of ^whom^ have returned. Pat, Peggy, & I have got into our new mansion: We lay there sixth-day night for the first time. I got away from Archibalds soon enough to leave room for his guests at the Meeting-time. I am obliged to T. Chandler for having my trunk sent by such a careful person I got it safe & hope he has delivered the saddle-bags which I brought from Ballitore I was not in the Office when the man called or should have sent a note along with them. I hope Cousin Lydia continues to recruit & Polly Mellor is quite recovered. How does Richard seem to like his sister: she will afford him fine amusement I fancy when he grows something older. I am in the pursuit of Time I shall think myself very clever if I overtake him in a fortnight with my utmost diligence, the Books are so much in arrears. I designed to have sent this last night but was prevented by being called to assist in a hurry of business. Pray give my dear love to my Aunt & all the rest of the family as if particularly mentioned.
        I am dear Uncle, 
                thy dutiful Nephew
                        William Rayner

