Coalbrookdale 11th/1stmonth 1787
I am afraid my much esteemed Friend has long concluded, we have given up our correspondence with our very valuable Friends at Baletore, as no letter has been sent from us. But let not appearances fix prejudice against us for indeed our Love is of a more durable nature than to be cooled or errazed by intervention of time or things! and altho our allotments are in a dry wilderness where no springs of water stream through our Land; yet our breathings are not so dryed up, that we cannot send forth sighs and secret prayer ^unto him^ who sees and heareth in secret for Our Dear fellow travellors! _ oh the universality of Divine Love, how it spreads over the whole heritage, and Opperates in us: enlarging our hearts to encircle the whole creation within the walls of eternal salvation! beging for the Redemption and preservation of all, thro every tryal and temptation. now may we not therefore lay hold of hope, that whilst these good desires are predomanent in us for one another, which cannot spring from a bad Spirit, but from the overshadowings of the heavenly Fathers Love; I say may we not hope that we are not forsaken  but that there is a sap arising from the living Root into the very outtermost Branches, to animate and enliven to every good word and work. _and altho leanness of some may be great,yet he can uphold, that they may not utterly utterly perish! Thus my Dear Friend doth it arise in my heart (altho poverty abounds) to the comfort of others! We were much disapointed in not having the company of thy son and his Friends with him from London: we did expect them daily. my son Abram, who was to join them, had his things to put up when he left them, and they being ready set out before him _and he could not overtake them tho he made much enquiry after them; but they took a different Road _ Well we deem ourselves unworthy, but glad I hope we are to enjoy our friends company.
Thy son was so kind as to send me a Letter; but his very acceptable ^company^ would have been much more agreeable my Daughter Debby & Ann were at Leeds quarterly meeting, which she writes, was Large & Satisfactory. five of the American Friends were there; Zac Dick, Green Dilwin, Rebeca Jones, Rebeca Wright & Ann Jessop. _ last Letter from Debby dated Bradford says, they espect to be at Sheffield next first day _ where we understand R. Jones is _ John Pemberton we hear was at Carlile quarterly meeting.  I hope we shall [letter torn - be favoured] to hear from thee, and of [letter torn but nothing seems to be missing] the welfare of thy worthy family _ to whom our united united Love is Largely extended _ also to our Dear Friends Mary Ridgeway and Jane Watson: indeed to all our Dear Friends. In which I rest thy very affectionate Friend_ Abiah Darby as that Dear Friend Travener living? if she is, my Dear Love is to her & near simpathy -- I hope thou will not take example by the shortness of this.
[Address]
Richard Shackleton Ballitore Ireland
[Endorsement]
Abiah Darby
Coalbrookdale: 11/1 month 1787.
Answered 30th/December


