My dear Cousin,                                                Ballitore: 18/10 month 1777.
			I am long in debt to thy very acceptable letter, my Wife also received a welcome epistle from thee lately. I am obliged by thy solicitude about me. After I parted with thy Father at Moat, I went with the English Friends to Edenderry, was at Meeting with them there, & was proceeding with them towards Dublin, when I was taken ill in the night at Nurney, grew better in the morning, longed to be at home under the care of my own family, so struggled to get home same day, which I was enabled to accomplish through the assistance of kind Providence, & my friend Sarah Neale, who sent her Chaise & her son with me from Christianstown. I was but poorly for a few days, but by proper advice & medicine (under the blessing of the same good hand) my disorder, which I believe was partly occasioned by Cold & long sittings, went off, but was succeeded by an uneasy sensation in my food (I believe the consequence of an old strain), which is pretty much gone off too. I hope to meet the English friends at Enniscorthy the ensuing week. My indisposition prevented my wife & me from being at Carlow when they paid their visit to our monthly meeting there but our children were all there. Those friends visited this particular meeting, but I was keeping my bed. I wish the great & repeated labour bestowed might be crowned with success: And indeed I believe it is not altogether in vain, for I am persuaded many of our youth up & down are under the renewed visitation of heavenly Regard, & others would be in danger of a still further backsliding were it not for the efficacy of these instrumental Calls, invitations & Expostulations. May we who are more advanced in years witness a being deepened in our spirits, & wait in humility & patience at the Kings gate; abide, take up our Residence, tarry at Jerus^a^lem, till it please the Author of every good & perfect gift to indue with power from on high!
	My Wife (through Divine favour) is tolerably well, very busy within & without doors, a throng house, divers wanting to send their children, whom we have put off till there be a vacancy. We have also the house near the Mill on our hands, I wish thou could recommend us a good Tenant for it, its a sweet place. Sister Carleton is middling, gets out now & then. Her Jaunt to Clonmel I hope was of no disservice to her. I believe my Wife & I were there since my last, we staid a few days, left E: Shannon there on her way to Cork, & brought my Sally home. Sam has moved to a very pleasant situation in the town, ^ a good house &^ convenient also to his business. They have a fine little thriving boy. Peggy has been much afflicted with the tooth-ache, she grew tired of nursing it & fencing against the cold, writes that she has cropt her hair, & dipt her head in the morning in a pail of cold water. She thought she was much better, & hoped she would grow hardy. She gives a melancholy account of the state of Robert Dudleys new wife, a fine, pleasing woman, but exceedingly delicate in constitution; was reduced so low by illness, that, by the last Intelligence, her Recovery seemed very doubtful. Betty Shannon is gone to Samuel Neales, & as far as we have yet heard, likes her place very well. how it will continue on both sides I know not: but the young-woman has gained much on us all by her obliging, good behaviour, & the solid turn which she has happily taken. Thomas Grubb & his family have removed (I suppose) from Waterford, & are now at his Fathers in Clonmel. They are in general I think a very worthy & respectable family, Cousin Johns love-suit still depends, is as tedious & uncertain as a law-suit. James Abell has not succeeded with Betsy Pim. When I was last at Edenderry I endeavoured to warm the old broth, but in vain. John Conran has been here several days, seems as innocent as a lamb, in general very agreeable in behaviour, skilful & helpful about planting & gardening. he did not seem free to leave us till this morning, when he set off for Mountmelick, I suppose in order to prove Lucy once more. I believe he will hardly succeed there. He is really to be pitied, a sensible, religious man, but in danger of entertaining notions (I believe) which may bewilder & perplex him. I wish the good Pilot may be pleased to steer his vessel clear of these shelves & shoals into the harbour intended for it. Cousin Sam Carleton is returned home this morning from an expedition to Mountmelick. For news from Athy-Quarter I refer thee to Cousin Abby. Thomas Wilys son who was indisposed, I understand is recruited finely. Hannah Jacob I believe but in a precarious way, her father bravely recovered, & gets to meeting & among his friends. My daughter Debbys face has been finely a good while, sometimes not so well. She is great help to us, an excellent nurse, & very attentive to any of the family indisposed. I believe care will be taken to have thy sons wants supplyd: he has lately got materials for clothes: he is a fine, hopeful boy, active, & thinks all the Intervals of his Studies (I suppose) little enough for play, would rather be employd in that than in chatting with women young or old: he is often (& indeed I think sufficiently) reprimanded for his deficiency in this respect: & I know not what more can be said or done to him with propriety to work a reformation in his manners in this respect particular. It was pleasing to see thy Father in our Province so cheery & stout: he forgot his cap-hood behind him I believe at Moat, at Joseph Robinsons. What possessed him to turn an Anabaptist, & plunge over head & ears in the Canal? If his grandson John did such a trick, I would not begrudge him a Whipping: I hope thou did not fail to give him the length of thy tongue.
19th. Thy Sister Abby, J: & T: Chandlee are come to us to day all bravely. She intends towards Enniscorthy & J: Chandlee. I know not but my daughter ^Debby^ & I will be with them: I hear that the meeting house of Enniscorthy has lately been broken open, & the Table-drawer in the meeting-house forcibly opened, & the meeting-book taken away. It is supposed to be done by some person who thought there was money in the Drawer. Perhaps the Thief imagines a Reward will be offered for the book. I am sensible the English Friends have had in view the Increase of Elders in number; if weight could be procured along with them, I should like it well: but in our Province I see little prospect of much addition at present: neither do I think it absolutely necessary. Perhaps a few are better than too many. I understand that Thomas Dobson (an honest, simple friend from the North of England) after performing an acceptable visit to the generality of Friends families in Dublin embarked for Whitehaven 17th instant. Molly Gough (Jamess daughter) recovering apace. Hannah Phelps dangerously ill of a Colick. Thy account is the last which I have heard (I think) of Matthew Johnson. We had a letter lately from Elizabeth Robinson she appears to have been well. Its like thou heard of Mabel Wighams trouble by the elopement of her eldest daughter (I suppose), during Mabels visit here.
	Give all our dear love to thy Father & Children (including that of my sister & thine, who are here at present), & accept the same in the nearest manner to thy self. Besure write when & as often as thou canst, as few letters which I got are more acceptable than thine to
										 Thy affectionate Friend
& Kinsman
Richard Shackleton.
