Having a little leisure this morning, expecting a good
opportunity of conveyance, and not wishing to be ungrateful for
thy kindness in sometimes favouring me with a letter, induces
me to attempt writing a few lines, which however unworthy of
thy acceptance I hope thou wilt receive as a token of my regard.
I expect long before this thou hast heard of my Father and
Adey Belamy's intention of going to the South of France with
a view of helping the other friends gone from hence in respect to
the Language, which I understand whilst in German they
were very much in want of, none of the five understanding
German, and very little French, which is much spoke there.
My Father and Adey Belamy left us about a month ago,
and by the last accounts which were recieved yesterday, they
were favoured with a safe journey as far as Lyon, where they
intended staying a few days expecting the friends to join them
there, How particularly pleasing must it be for friends to
meet in a strange Country. We hope by this time they are all
in Languedoc which is the Province in which those People
live who they go to visit. How long it will be before we have
20 May, 1788

the satisfaction of seeing them again is I believe altogether
uncertain, but I hope whenever it is they will return in safety
and with the reward of solid peace. In thy last thou mentioned
hearing of E Wests marriage, but Alas! she enjoyed the married
state a very short time, I think it was about three or four months
ago that she was lying in, after which she got out but a few times.
We have had the pleasing company Samuel Neal (who I
am very glad is so far recovered as to be able to come over) thy
Father and Sister, Thomas Greer, and several other Friends from
Ireland at our house this Yearly Meeting, which is now over
'tho both the Mens and Womens meetings sate till rather late
yesterday evening. I hope we may entertain an expectation
of seeing thee here next Year, which would be very pleasing to me
Sarah Corbyn has been confined most of last winter, but is
lately much recover'd, frequently attending two long meetings
in a day, which we think is for her extraordinary. I think
thou knew Joseph Rows nieces, one of them, Elizabeth Phillips
is lately married to Robert Lambert a friend of this City.
Samuel Hoare junr is likely soon to enter [insertion]again[/insertion] into that Solemn
Covenant with Hannah Sterry a young woman of London.

My dear Friend [unclear][/unclear] thou wilt not take example by
my long silence, which I hope thou wilt not think was occasioned
by want of regard, for indeed that was not the case, but I am a
sad correspondent.
With dear love to thyself and sister I remain
Thy affectionate Friend
London
Mariabella Eliot.
20th of 5 month 1788

M: Eliot
London: 20/5 mo: 1788
Ansd 19 --- 89
Mary Shackleton
Ballitore
per favour
Ireland
R. Shackleton

