June 11th 1816
94 Abbey St
Dear Cousin
I went with miss L to Mrs King's on
wednesday when she informed me what was required of me
and the terms which are certainly very moderate when
compared with what is to be done, I however did not
object to them, I merely said I would let my mother know.
She advised me to accept of the place in hopes it would
lead to something better, as Mrs K told me she [insertion]would not[/insertion] want
me untill after vacation, which will be about the middle
of August. Miss L advised me to write to her to know
if she wished either of us to consider ourselves engaged.
I did write, and have not recieved an answer yet. Something
told me at first by the cold way she spoke to me that
she did not intend engaging me, but perhaps she did not
like to say so to Miss L. I think it would have been much
more satisfactory to both of us if she had made known
her inte[insertion]n[/insertion]tions, if she delay's writing much longer, I intend
to let Miss L know, perhaps she might know of something
else if this does not succeed, she was so good as to
say if in future I required her assistance to let her know.

I delayed answering your kind letter waiting for Mrs K
answer, as she did not write I thought it better to let
you know as much as I know. give my love to my cousin
Sally and tell her I was very much disappointed on thursday
when I called to A Fayle's to let her know the result
of my visit, to hear she had left town that morning.
I hope all your family are well doctor [unclear]Thomson[/unclear] was here a few
evenings ago he told us Deborah was better. is poor Margaret
still ill how very apt we are too say from outward appearances
how happy people are without ever considering the many little
incidents which occur to make them otherwise, however
we ought not to repine for we have many things to be thank[insertion]ful[/insertion]
for. my father I think is much better than he was last week
though he still complains of the pain in his hip and
leg. will you give my love to Mary and tell her I expect
a few words from her to let me know she has not forgot
me give my love too all friends
and believe me to be
Sincerely yours
E R.
my father sends his love.

