To Sarah Haughton
Hail, genial Spring, & thou, my Sylvia, hail!
Come, let us wander through this vale beloved
While Nature breathes in fragrance all around
Escaped the chains of Winter the glad herb
Rejoices in the ray - the timid flowers
Lift their sweet heads, & waft the soft perfume;
While on the bough, which teems with many a bud
The joyous birds sing loud. O season dear,
Parent of Memory! oft at thy approach
Ideas lost return - Thou wakes' the time
My Sylvia still remembers: yet the sun
Has twice since then his annual race perform'd.
Twas night; the balmy dews in silence fell,
The gales refresh'd the kindly influence own'd,
And through the garden's pleasant shade, my friend,
We moved, while on our heads the lucid stars
Pour'd cheerful light: with health our bosoms glow'd,
And

And blithesome Exercise our nerves had strung.
We were not wont to wear unjoyous hearts,
Nor had we cause; yet now with wonder own'd
That neither trouble, care, nor pain we felt;
But all was tuned to joy - & tranquil joy,
Not turbulent: no higher wish remain'd,
Which earth could give, than always thus to feel -
But, oh, my Sylvia! always thus to feel
Was not for us: 'tis not for human kind.
How smoothly spreads the quiet stream of joy!
Yet flung by envy's hand, the intruding stone
Defaces in a moment every scene
So fair reflected on it's placid breast:
Or showers of grief it's azure beauties stain,
And all discolourd rolls the troubled flood.
Alas, my Sylvia! soon this lot was thine;
What time the best of fathers breathed his last;
What time his mourning children's duteous hearts
Pour'd forth the secret prayers, & would have prov'd
The vital flood, to save him; & what time
Thy

Thy gentle sister languish'd, droop'd & died.
Oh my loved Delia! on thy early grave
Permit this solitary tear to fall,
To sacred friendship, fond affection due,
We born together in this pleasant shade
Together grew; & blameless innocence
Shone on sweet childhood's reign - Ah; had my heart
Retain'd that blameless innocence like thine!
It grew with thee, & o'er thy full-grown youth
He Hover'd with angel-wing - and does not Peace
Dwell in that breast where Innocence resides!
Why then did Delia droop, & languor dim
Extinguish all the sprightly fires of youth,
And wan dejection with afflicting hand
Oppress that gentle heart? - Ah! well may youth
Droop, languish, & resign each sprightly charm,
When health retires. With aching heart I view'd
The roses fade, which [deletion]er[/deletion][insertion]u[/insertion]st with lively bloom
O'erspread that damask-cheek: thy wasted frame
With grief I saw: & yet I left thee thus;
To

To distant plains with wandering steps I turn'd
Where kindred's call, where friendship's voice allured.
I left thee thus: but ah! I little thought
That I should never, never see thee more;
That when returning to my pleasant home,
Thou should not greet me there; but cold & pale
Sleep silent by thy honour'd parent's side.
Then fare-thee-well, my dear, my early friend!
O may we meet again in happier climes,
Where peace the undisturb'd abode prepares,
And Virtue weaves the amaranthine crown!
Mary Shackleton
3d month 1787

