Waterford Fifthmonth 5th 1799
My dear Cousin
I heard with much concern of the melancholy
event that took place in thy family & am not surprised
at its making a lasting impression: the lenient
hand of time will I trust blunt the most acute feelings
of the tender parent & leave behind only sensation it would
be unnatural & shameful to be divested of: Thy self reproaches
however I can by no means approve of - the accident
was unforseen perhaps unprecedented in thy experience - it
is impossible to be so vigilant as to ward off every
impending danger the little bird must take a flight
beyond the mothers ken or how can it ever trust its wings.
Pats second daughter is in a very deplorable situation - quite
emanciated & feeble - unable to walk - takes the air only in
a womans arms - The only chance under Providence of
her re-establishment is warm weather which has been long
delayed this season. It is very satisfactory that you
have

have at length got a truce from those ruffians: I think
they were suffered to go to very great length before any
precautions were taken to prevent their future visits - I hope
the military are kept under proper subordination - I think, when
in this town, the Clare militia shewed pretty good conduct.
I know Alice Rogers very well (not as an acquaintance) she bore
an extra-ordinary good character attentive & duteous to her aged
Grandfather with whom she constantly resided at his death he
left her I understand the chief part of his remaining property
I used best endeavours to procure satisfaction for that
poor young man thou wrote about but I fear without effect
I informed Thos. Chandlee when the money was to be paid &
requested his interference to have justice done to the lad
by securing for his benefit the proportion he was entitled
to by his brothers will be by being appointed joint Legatee
& Executor - but did not hear from him since - although
Mathew & the other son came here to receive the money. The
Father administered & was the only person it could be paid
to - moreover being the natural Guardian of the boy, I
believe no one else could reserve the money for his use without

the fathers consent. I wrote by Mooney to J. B. on his return
about a debt of about 12 Guineas due of Geo Daker to my employers
requesting an immediate answer whether it was recoverable or
no but have not heard from him since which makes me
think Mooney did not deliver my letter. He told me the boy
was now at home with him. The money the Father received
was as follows - at first lying in the hand of G & W Penrose £ 68.8.10
& afterwards by order from W Spurrier & Son of Poole £ 46.18.3 Eng 50.16.5
£ 119.5.3
from which deducting the expenses & small legacies a third of the
remainder ought in justice be appropriated for the
simple lad. Please when opportunity serves
communicate with TC in the subject & present me
affectionatly to him, Debby & the children. I do not see an
immediate prospect of an opportunity of visiting Ballitore
"majestick though in ruins" perhaps when the iron age is farther
advanced I may. The property of the Glass House is changed
or rather the proprietors & I only am retained in the
service of the old to wind up all dependencies: how long
this may give me employment I cannot say: Please distribute
my affectionate greetings to all at home. I think my Aunt
has been favoured during these melancholy scenes
by being incapable of noticing them much
Thine Sincerely W Rayner
Becky joins in best wishes to thee & thou - She & her two damsels pretty well

Mary Leadbeater
Ballitore
Wm Rayner
Waterford: 5/5 mo: 1799
Ansd. 18/-

