From the same to the same
Clonmel: 11/9 month 1780


My dear James [pencil note] ? [end note]


++ I enjoy health of body, but my mind ^often wants^ a Physician - A most excellent Physician indeed attends it, and not only prescribes, but administers medicine perfectly suitable, ordering a regimen entirely proper - but the Patient is apt to break through rules, so does not get to perfect soundness, but is too much like thyself, sick & better, sick & better. But thou art a highly-favoured man, and wouldst think thyself so, if thou knew the state of some others whom thou preferrest far before thyself, and to whom it is not lawful to disclose their poverty - they mourn in publick and in private - their tears are all their meat - and well pleased and thankful are they to be fed with any food which Infinite Wisdom best knows to be most convenient for them -  and this for the greater part of their lives. So hide this in thy heart, and think of it when thou art tempted to murmur - But I fear I am presuming (by thus writing) to tread on holy ground without due preparation, so must drop the subject. 
    Thou seems to me to be mistaken about the family visit here, calling it my concern and engagement - I did not feel it so - It was necessary in some sort for someone to accompany our friend Betty Gregory, and show her places. Such is the situation of things here, &c, that it was hardly expedient - if at all lawful - for one first rate friend of this place to sit with her in the family of another principal person [198 page number] - I happened to be here, whom (whatever the cause is) is no body seems to except against; so I went with her. It was in general a hard, low time - but as the thing is awful and solemn, and an affair which lies between the Lord & his anointed, between the prophet and the people. I dare not judge any way, - The caution of private interpretation to ^myself seemed to be, not to be a busy medeller in other folks matters - Indeed I ventured out a little in the families of John and Samuel Grubb, and know not but ^it^ was right. Betty went 9th to Waterford with expectation of staying I believe ten or twelve days there, and then returning to Bristol in the same vessel which brought her to Waterford. Probably she may engage in visiting families there while she stays - She is a valuable, honest-hearted woman, and I wish she may be rightly directed & helped - but unless I found it my duty to join myself to her chariot, I would by no means go on the invitation received from my friends there. May we by Divine mercy be preserved in every respect, say I. +++
        I am pleased with thy report of our valuable James Gough - he is a Gospel-minister - As to family visits, I really think ministers should be see their way very clear before them, to engage in that service - In the ordinary course of church discipline, it seems hardly so properly their business, as that of elders. But ministers feeling a draught to it at any particular time should by all means follow the motion of life, and so moving, have been, are are and will be of peculiar service.
