My dear Cousin,                                                 Ballitore: 18/8 month: 1778.
	Tommy Chandlee & our John arrived here 13th instant both of them in good plight. Tommy was in such haste to his own home that he proceeded hence thither the same evening, returned hither in the evening of 15th, & went next morning with my Son to Baltiboys in order to meet there the two honest English women-friends, returned in the afternoon, & seemed pleased with their excursion - I suppose the women may have sailed from Dublin before now. Isaac Grey & Thomas Carrington are gone towards Munster, Samuel Spavold I suppose come out of it - None of the men-friends have been with us yet this time - Tommy handed me an accepted bill for the Balance of Accounts between us, which pays off to the time of Johns return. Inclosed thou hast my Receipt for the same, & herewith my grateful acknowledgements - My son & I have since received thy letters, & hope that due attention will be paid to the contents respecting Johns tuition.
	 I doubt not thy sympathy with us in our recent loss - we mean to hold the Retreat in our hands & keep it up, in hope of one day realizing the name which we have given it, if we be found worthy of such a favour from Providence, though as yet we see no great probability of that event falling out soon - Cousin Sam, our Molly & Sally, & the same servants sleep theire still, the servants reside there constantly, the rest diet pretty much with us, especially dine here. This plan seems likely to hold till towards winter, when I believe it must be in some respect altered, but how it will be is not quite determined - I might have mentioned in its place that John seemed to have as little gloom on his Return as might be expected after leaving so near connexions & dear friends. Peggys letter to Sally was very acceptable, & I doubt not but Sally will reply. We are expecting today a visit from the mother & aunt of Jerry Hanks two Sons who are at school here - The women have been some time at Carlow.
	We are in general tolerably well here, the boys all bravely, & Molly finely, continues to drink Apes milk, & ride. We have likewise good accounts from Clonmel, when we hear from thence. My wife indeed is not so stout as I could wish, subject to take cold, to be troubled at times with a dizziness, wind, &c - She does not get as much jolting about as I believe would be good for her - The 22nd instant is our province meeting at Wicklow. I believe I shall go to it by Dublin, having some business there.
	On comparing accounts received concerning poor Christy Nicholson, it seems as if she was not for this world. happy for her if she be fully sensible that the hour of decision is approaching near, & the work of preparation & Reconciliation is going forward with the day. [penciled bracket] [We had very late account concerning James Doyle, who lives near Cork: his dissolution is thought to be very near at hand but many who have visited him are witness of the Strength which attends him in weakness, & depart from his bed of outward languishing animated in their spirits to endeavour to follow such a pattern - his cup of consolation so overflows that he more frequently (I believe) ministers to those Friends who visit him, than is ministered unto by them [penciled bracket] ]
	Accept of all our dear & cordial love to thee & thine, in which Cousin Sam joins, Remember us very kindly to thy worth Father & brother James when thou hast opportunity: And believe me,
						My dear Cousins
									truly affectionate Friend
										   Richard Shackleton.

[margin page 3] P.S. We hear that young George Newenham of Cork has been privately married this good while to some girl he met with in London  his mother takes it greatly to heart. Also that Sam Neale of Christianstown is like to succeed with his sister Debby. Its thought that Jack Watson will get Dinah Deaves, & Tom Simmons will get Nancy Clibborn. Perhaps thou wilt say, Queen Elizabeth is dead.
