To the memorable visit paid to the meetings for discipline in the Nation of Ireland, the following letter refers.	
			
				Cooladine, 18th of Ninthmonth, 1762
			The Friends from England are,
Samuel Fothergill, Jonathan Raines, Isaac Wilson, and William Rathbone; some of whom signified they had been drawn from the nearest connections in life

P.53] “by the good Lord and Master, to visit us, in this poor desolate Island. The Master of our assemblies is with them, and the concern for our welfare, in the very best respect, is great. He is with them, even the shout of the Divine Majesty of heaven; he is yet working and seeking by his instruments, and his good Spirit also immediately, to gather us near to himself. Oh! that the children of men would keep steadily deep to the root, that they might bring forth right fruit to the honour of Him whose care for us is exceeding great! As far as I could ever feel, none shuts a door in His house for nought, so rich a rewarder is he: his peace, my dearest child, is enough. Be careful never to be drawn forth into many unnecessary words; may the right book of conscience be kept open by the finger of Him that sees and watches perpetually over us for good: may all our words and thoughts be brought thereto, that we may live to Him that is everlastingly worthy.”
	The public meeting comfortably ended, Isaac Wilson, and then Samuel Fothergill, laid before the meeting their concern; and those that were not of the Society, I mean those that did not profess with us, were, in a prudent, tender manner, desired to withdraw: and all that professed, though not in strict unity, were desired to stay. Then the men and women keeping their seats, the clerk was directed to read the eleven queries, audibly and distinctly.

P. 54 “The overseers, in each particular meeting, gave a distinct, explicit, and particularly-clear answer thereto. Words fitly spoken, arising from the unmixed life, are, I think, compared to apples of gold set in pictures of silver: the expression was more than verified. I do not expect to live to see another extraordinary visit of this nature, and I heartily wish it may have the much-desired effect.							A.S.”
