Dear Cousin,
Thy kind letters I received, & several times in my mind
proposed answering, & although I do mean to insinuate as if I was
a person of much business, yet one thing after another interfered to
occupy my time, & prevent my enjoying the satisfaction of conversing
with thee. The repeated good accounts we receive of health
being continued to thee, assist in reconciling us to thy absence; yet
a desire couched in the language of, "Oh I wish Cousin Samuel was
"come home"! sometimes evaporates: thus thou sees bodily separation
or cannot divest [insertion]the mind[/insertion] of the idea of one's friend. We are still convinced
cannot divest [insertion]the mind[/insertion] of the idea of one's friend. We are still convinced
of the mutability of our state by fresh tidings of the removal
of our acquaintance; Joshua Beal's decease was sudden, & unexpected
by us; his agreeable Widdow is exceedingly to be pittied
& also Joseph Medcalf's death is a circumstance very grievous
no doubt to his surviving connections: the time is short since his
matrimonial connection; I was acquainted with his Widdow,
who seemed a sensible, clever girl: his appearance was very amiable;
for acquaintance I had none with him. We had a letter
from Brother since his arrival at Tanner'send, he gives us a
Ballitore 17th of 10th mo: 1773
lively

lively, full relation of his travels; they were (he tells us) exceedingly
tossed, their Captain waited for the tide & day light, therefore
would not croud as much sail as was sufficient to counterballance
the fury of the wind & weaves & make the motion
more steady, this was happy for them, he says, otherwise they
should have run foul on another vessel, that lay sunk in
the Harbour, & had met with that misfortune the night before
they landed, she was a coal carrier from Liverpoole, no lives lost.
Brother was exceedingly affected with the storm, & a disagreeable
swimming in his head held him two days; at length with
the aid of 15 Carriages they arrived safe at Tanner'send 28:th
9th month, the Man of the house in London, but the rest of the family
at home to give them a warm & hearty reception, except the two
little ones who were in bed, & appeared next morning so charming
that Aby gives them the exalted title of "Little Stars";
"Their features are striking out & promise lovely flowers", he says.
Now I suppose he is there; how we shall get him back is the
question, a question which no Mortal can answer; but I hope we
shall not suffer the pungent affliction of being left destitute of our
dear

dear, & only Brother; all things are in the power of a gracious &
omnificent Being, to whose directions we submit, well assured,
that all he does is right. Last seventh-day-night we were
visited with an exceeding great storm, attended by thunder &
lightning, exceedingly tremendous was the sound; Aunt could
not rest in bed, I thought it solemn, but my mind was calm &
easy: thou mentions in thine (to Sally) severe weather. I suppose
shall hardly see thee till after the meeting, 'tis scarcely worth thy
while, as it is approaching so fast. As to our health, a matter
thou would interest thy self in, I may say it is pretty well continued
to us; Aunt's spirits sink with those repeated accounts of
Death, & her head-ache still attacks her. We hear at times from
Carlon pretty agreeable information. Cousin Hannah's [underline]Love-bed[/underline]
Sister is removed there, perhaps the poor Woman is actually incapable
of leaving it, & yet her accomplishing a journey there, contradicts
this supposition; I shall not judge her, but quit the subject with
wishing, that every particularity I behold unpleasing in others,
may warn me of the danger of falling into the same.
It is now time to make an end, I refer to Molly for answers
to thy queries, & am thy thy sincerely affectionate Cousin
Margaret Shackleton

Marg Shackleton
1773
Mary Shackleton to S:C.
Margt Shackleton
Ballitore : 17/10mo. 1773

