My dear Cousin,							Ballitore: 14/12 mo: 1779

	I am favoured with thine of 6th instant, which is very acceptable. We are concerned that thou hast been so much indisposed, wish it may be consistent with the Divine Will that thou be favoured (after all thy past troubles) with a portion of health & tranquility, & to enjoy thy near connexions partakers of the same blessings. However, if it seem meet to Infinite Wisdom that our tranquillity be disturbed, that the Lives of our nearest friends & relations be touched, & that adversity in one shape or other be our lot; what can we poor, weak creatures do, but in all Lowliness submit to the hand which smites, & seeking with filial fear & solicitude to place ourselves & those we love under the Divine Protection, leave the issue of all to a merciful Creator? Let us not anticipate trouble -- Sufficient to the day is the evil thereof. Every cloud that gathers does not burst in a storm. As sometimes troubles come upon us which we did not expect, so at other times the calamity which we feared is suspended or averted. Through all, the Almighty Arm is sufficient to defend from above, & to support underneath. Be sure nothing happens to his Children, without his Providence, & if they but keep close enough to him, & wait with all diligence upon him, he will assuredly minister to them Consolation adequate to their necessities. And this I am persuaded has been thy repeated experience.
	We have had in this country a kind of epidemical Cold, few have escaped it. Our families partook of it -- My wife was a good deal disordered - my daughter Sally has kept her bed with (the Doctor calls them) Rheumatick pains -- And Betty Widdows has been laid up, but (through the interposition of divine favour) I hope we are all on the mending hand -- The situation of my wifes ^Sally's^ health & of my Sons family seemed to render it unsuitable for her to attend the Qrly Meeting, though in our neighbourhood, & the event appeared to justify the propriety of her stay -- Lydia felt the pains of Labour 28th ult in the morning, & in the evening just as we got home with our friends from Carlow, she brought us a fine, little boy. My wife & sister Fuller staid the day with her. Doctor Smith of Maryborough was employd, on account of his good character, & our previous connexion with him, as he has two Sons at the school here. The women reckon that he displayd great care, humanity & skill, & that some particular circumstances in Lydias case made them all very necessary. She fully intended to have nursed (suckled) the child herself, but could not well accomplish it, so upon a consultation of wise ladies a well-looking nurse, well-reccomended, with a full breast of milk 3 or 4 months old, was provided: the mother relieved from uneasiness & weakening, ineffectual efforts, has gathered strength finely, & both she & her son seem well pleased with the Revolution in affairs -- So far they go on well, & so far young Richard seems a thriving little fellow. I believe I would not have omitted to give thee earlier information of this event (which I know would be very pleasing to thee), but thought that thy Sister Abby had certainly advised thee of it, & I had to pay some other debts of this nature, which had been a good while due. I had Letters lately from several of my friends in England, Esther Tuke & Anstis Sparkes of thy acquaintance, & some others. I have no certain account (that I remember) of Thomas Carringtons having sailed for America, not any late accounts from that continent by private Letters -- I understand (as no doubt thou hast heard) that Thomas Colly is returned in peace, ^& safety^ having visited such of the W. India islands as he could get himself conveyed to in these perilous, turbulent times, & that he had found acceptance among the people, & a door of utterance. He returned (I suppose) a satisfactory account of his visit to the Morning Meeting in London. I think, in any Chronicles of the history of our society, there is hardly to be met with a greater instance of entire devotion & dedication than this visit of this dear, simple, worthy man at such a time. Esther mentions her having been in a poor state of health, yet getting about in the service, as enabled & drawn -- She seems to think well of her daughter Sallys appearance in the Ministry, & writes of divers others who have been honoured in that manner & likely to be serviceable. I know not when the time of Singing of Birds will come, & such voices be more generally heard in our poor land. James Gough, Thomas Bewley, Joseph Inman, Joseph Williams, John Smithson & I went (under the nomination of our Province-Meeting) to pay a visit to the Monthly Meetings of Moat & Mountmelick, & stir up to faithfulness in relation to these military associations. We found some (though not many) who had contributed to this matter, partly through ignorance & inadvertency, & partly through a design of keeping up a watch to scour the country, which had suffered greatly by nocturnal depredations, & which watch (they alleged) had, without their expectation or foresight, gradually taken a military turn & form. Some reckoned that their names had been put down as Subscribers without their consent -- We endeavoured to explain & inforce the support of our testimony in this respect, exhorted & advised, as we were enabled. We did not meet with a spirit of defiance & contradiction; but on the contrary our visit was very kindly received & I hope will be of some service. We were a night at Birr at Jerry Hanks - they seemed in the usual way there - Johny Thompson (Abbys husband) continued there. Betty of her best fashion: their two boys at school here & little Greenwood very well. Cousin Sam Carleton I doubt much of -- I fear he has got a dropsy, by his great thirst, swelling of his legs & almost total loss of appetite: yet he does not like to hear that term given to his disorder. There does not appear any sign of sudden change: so he may perhaps hold out for a considerable time: he is among tender, affectionate people where he lodges. He has once taken the air in a Carriage -- He bade me present you with his dear love. I have lately a Letter of Lamentation from poor John Connan - his complaints are spiritual - nothing of the Love of women among them. I believe him an honest, well-minded, sincere, sensible man, & I believe these also are thy sentiments concerning him. As to his Love-affairs: I have been wearied out with him & anothers in that predicament --I may say in that sense I am sick of Love. Lovers are many of them like Jockeys, or dealers in horses I think: however strange or irreconcilable to our notions of Right & Wrong their transactions may be, they will give us like an endless thread of plausible arguments in their own favour. Our other respectable friend, whom thou mentions, changed me by having propagated the story about the demand for his daughter, that my daughter Peggy spoke of it in a publick company at Clonmel, that this Ballitore is the centre, & mast of intelligence, &c &c.. Being conscious that I had propagated no such story, & that if Peggy heard such a thing, she had got it by some other information, not mine, I own I was provoked not only to reject the accusation, but to recriminate himself, & tell him that (as far as I could learn) it was his own hints thrown out which had occasioned the Report. He said I must have understood that from thee, & that I would give thee a Lecture upon it. I did not acknowledge thee, or any body as my Author. So our Altercation ended - a thing of nothing, unless thou be made uneasy by it - which I would be sorry for, but am no farther accessary to it, than I have above related -- I have read John Griffiths Journal, very entertaining & edifying: but the low, degenerate state in which he describes our poor society to be, must leave sorrowful traces on a tender, feeling mind - Yet these Sensations may be profitable, tending to bring us into suffering with the Seed, & to stimulate us to seek diligently after best help, that we may do each our duty in our day, not by Indolence & disobedience treasuring up wrath against the day of wrath, but by simply acting & living according to knowledge revealed, laying up good treasure against that day in which the Lord Almighty will render to every man according to his deeds -- I doubt not thy good wishes for Abraham & Lydia -- I hope they will more & more unite in the Love of the best things. When thou seest thy brother James, remember me very dearly to him. We all (including both families) join in near affection to thee, thy father & children. My wifes & my kind love to the rest of the household. Peggy Grubb had been indisposed, but recruited when we heard last, & her husband & children well.
		I am my dear Debbys very affectionate friend & kinsman
Richard Shackleton.

