June 13th 1822
Dear Eliza
Here I am at the desk in the shop,
 as fast at business as ever, after my excursion to [unclear]Sualoal[/unclear]
it seems like a dream, that I was there at all. I am however
glad to get home; We arrived here after a short passage from
Holy head of six hours and a half on friday about 1/2 past 3 Oclock
I send you herewith a Journal of our proceeding's which I have
attempted to draw out. I have not a very reflecting head
therefore you need not expect wise observations on what I
say, also the hurry with which we saw the scenes there mentioned
precluded almost any reflection on them. The style
likewise requires some apology, which I will leave to your
kindness to excuse.
I received your letter with great pleasure after your long
silence, which I began not to know how to account for; how happened
it that you began it in such a doleful manner, why is it well
you were not burned, perhaps, as you found [deletion]it[/deletion] [insertion]the fire[/insertion] out in time,
it was lucky that your vapours were driven away in such a
hurry. There is another expression in your letter I do not like
that is where you speak of Sarah's usurping my mothers place
at Brit St. it is a harsh expression but may be you did not
mean it, as I take it, I hope no unkindness has arisen between you
you ask me how I like my new sister She is indeed a sister
to me, being very kind and attentive in every thing that can conduce
to the happiness of those [deletion]she looks to[/deletion] around her.
I was thinking of getting leave to go down to you the Sunday
on which we embarked for England, but the proposal of that
expedition altered my views. I must wait for a further opportunity
to have the gratification of seeing Ballitore thoroughly.

I have observed those three [unclear]areas[/unclear] you mention in other
places besides Ballitore, they are the natural consequence
of the feelings attendant on mere acquaintance, but when
acquaintance ripens into friendship I think the conduct of the
parties ought to be equal on all occasions.
I saw Wm Bennett when I was in London, he seems to be a person
whose friendship would be worth cultivating, he deems nothing
a trouble which would be of service to a friend; he expects
to be over here shortly, where I hope he will [insertion]be[/insertion] received as he
deserves
I found on my arrival Deborah at Brit St and Eben & Richard & L
just arrived from a walk through the County Wicklow, we were
all at Glendruid on Sunday along with H Boardman who is
come from Carlow. My poor Aunt Wright is very bad I suppose
death would be a release from her sufferings and a relief to her
friend. My uncle is aware of her precarious situation I hope she is so too.
We have lost Jenny Stephens, the poor girls are to be pitied we knew
them happy and comfortable.
I have not seen the 9th Number of the Reflector, are any of our
Ballitore friends contributors to it. Whether it is of as much use
as some of the writers for it expect, it is hard to tell; people
often are satisfied with writing down their ideas of right and
wrong, without acting up to them,

Dear Eliza
The Fragment on the other side was written
before you came to town, I thought I might as well
send it to you as not. I send you herewith the
two Books you commissioned me to buy I hope you
accept them as a remembrance of the event by
means of which they were got, and also of the giver
and you will oblige yours
John Barrington

Eliza Gough
Ballitore

