Ballitore: 17/2 month 1784.

My dear cousin,

	Since the day of the date of thy last Letter (8/12 month last) I have been much abroad, & engaged with company at home -- which must plead my excuse for so long silence. Nevertheless, had we not heard about you by means of our Mollys correspondence, I should very probably have been more uneasy in keeping silence. -- I am glad our poor child was so agreeable to you there. I am pleased that we let her go to you. The hand of an infinitely-wise & gracious Providence saw meet (I believe) to unite the hearts of the Parents with the holy cement of his pure Love, & I trust it is of the same condescending goodness, that a friendship is formed among our children -- May we of the retiring generation be happily continued objects of divine Regard & compassion, & be endued from season to season with fresh supplies of heavenly wisdom, that so we may walk in & before our families with propriety, & leave such vestiges, in all parts of our conduct, as our successours may safely follow. And may our beloved offspring & their connexions having been favoured to see a glimpse of the beauty which is in the Truth, dwell low, in humble, watchful fear, that this eye may ever be kept open in them, that the vision may be more & more cleared & extended, & the god of this world never be permitted to close, or obscure ^with the dust of the earth^, or dazzle & dim with worldly splendour! -- I am anxious for the coming forward of the youth of our day: something or other retards their growth -- with divers it is not any evil disposition, any criminal pursuit: but I fear there is a want of steady, solid, diligent waiting for the renewal of those baptisms, which purge the soul, & prepare it for further illuminations & discoveries of duty -- there is a seeking & desiring after Good, & a looking towards the servants & messengers, & expecting from them: but if, under a sense of our wants & weaknesses, our attention was more immediately turned to the Master himself, & our dependence more abstractedly fixed upon him, I believe there would be more of a growing in the root, the tender plant would sooner become a tree of Righteousness, & fruit would be brought forth in due season grateful to God & man.
	Thy last letter, my dear Cousin, was forwarded to me to Clonmel, where I was visiting my children & grandchildren. I went thither just after our province-meeting at Castledermot, round by Ballinakill, in company with dear William Matthews & Isaac Jackson, & did not return home till about six weeks after, when I fell in with our Quarterly meeting at Carlow in my way -- during that interval I had been twice at Waterford, once at the Quarterly Meeting there: but my principal delay was the family-visit at Clonmel & Garryroan-side, in which I was requested to join, & thought it best to encourage the service, as I happened to be there -- Benjamin Grubb, John Grubb, Robert Dudley & wife, & William Fennell were principals on the visit -- James Keys & Thomas Grubbs wife sometimes attended. I think a degree of best help was afforded, & it was generally performed (I believe) to good satisfaction. I was much taken with Benjamin Grubbs manner; it was instructive, exemplary, & edifying to me -- he left the world & its business (of which he has a considerable share) to his hopeful children & servants, & set himself earnestly & steadily about this business, run about here & there, ranging, appointing & giving notice to families, to suit their convenience & save time -- When we sate down with a family, he generally opened the way (after a previous time of solid waiting) by letting them know it was an opportunity of religious conference by appointment of their meeting of discipline, & proceeded to recite the substance of some of the most important of the Quarterly Meetings Queries one after another, to which Answers were sometimes severally given, & occasion taken to make remarks, give advice, &c. as seemed suitable. Benjamin is in the church much as he is in the world -- he goes on snug & safe -- he does not get out of his depth, nor meddle with matters too high for him -- he is an honest, upright, downright man, deals upon his own stock, affects to be nothing, but what he really is, speaks his mind plainly & simply, & is more in substance than in show. Molly Dudley appeared at times most beautifully amongst us -- it was the beauty of holiness indeed -- than which nothing is more splendidly excellent -- In this tour we met with dear Molly Watson, who resides with her infant at Robert Fennells at Garyroan: it seems on several accounts a very proper Asylum for her. I have long & often felt near friendship for her, & thou may well think her present situation did not make her less dear to me. Affliction ^by melting down,^ seems to unite friends & mingle their spirits more intimately, as Fire dissolves metals, & causes them to incorporate in one mass -- I extracted much satisfaction from my visit to Peggy, her lovely flock of (five) children delighted me -- they were all favourably brought through the Small Pox, in the natural way. Soon after I left her, she met with renewed cause of gratitude in the escape of her daughter, who had been on some ice in a back-yard, which was frozen over a [unclear]-hole: the ice broke & the child fell in up to the neck I understand: Little Abraham her brother was screaming on the brink, & his cries were heard by some one that happened at that time to be at work in the comb-shop, who rescued the child grabbling [sic] with her hands, to raise herself above the ice. It was of great mercy that Abraham did not attempt to save his sister, & that they were not both lost. Sam was abroad, having come with me to Carlow, & proceeded to Dublin: it would have been a melancholy return for him to find the number of his children lessened in such a manner -- Our Quarterly Meeting was attended by several friends from the province of Munster. I think it was as satisfactory as generally. A Meeting was appointed for Six oclock on First-day evening, to which the towns-people were invited. Mary Ridgway, Jane Watson & William Matthews were there, the meeting was large & in a good degree quiet, & quite more agreeable than I expected at that raw place -- The next day Mary & Jane went to see Samuel Watson, who was poorly: I believe they had no great satisfaction in their visit -- I suppose he continues much the same way: they came from that side the day following to us, & they & William were so kind to spend a few days with us much to our gratification. I went with them about the middle of the week following to Athy, where we spent a day or two among our friends, attended the Meeting there, & visited the family of Joseph Haughtons widow, with her eleven children. From Athy, the women went on for Mountmelick, & William returned with me, & staid till 11th instant, when he went with us to Carlow on the day of our Mens & Womens meetings; my son accompanyd him from thence to Clonmel, where their province-meeting began 15th, he was longing to see his country-women Rebecca Wright & Patience Brayton who had landed a short time before at Waterford from America, & were gone to Clonmel. Aby writes that he had a very pleasing journey with William, who I suppose is not yet quite clear of the south -- We expect Aby home to night or to morrow. On my return home 11th from Carlow with my family, Jonathan Haughton riding along with me, within 3 or 4 miles of this place, my old mare (Gentle) collected some snow (what is called balled) & slipping fell on her side on my leg; no bone was broke, but the contusion gave me considerable pain for a while: it however did not last long: the chaise was in company, & my wife & daughters were so kind as to take me in, & I was brought home softly in pretty easy plight about Seven oclock at night. I have since been close house-keeper, nursing my leg, & have been out no where but at meeting, which I have not been prevented from attending. I expect (through the kindness of Providence) to be soon quite well, have been thankful that my leg was not broke -- Jack Haughton (Jonathans son) since fell by his beasts slipping, was dragged a small piece (I apprehend) by his foot sticking in the stirrups, & was much hurt -- a chaise was got to bring him home about six miles, & a Surgeon employed, who says no bone is broke -- I hope his Strain is better, & that he will do well -- No doubt thou heard of the sudden removal of William Duckett -- he was but about an hour ill, died soon after he went to bed 15th ultimate -- he had made a will a few months before I suppose -- left 1000 to sister Fuller, for her to enjoy the Interest of it during her life, & afterwards to be equally divided among her children -- he has bequeathed several legacies to his relations -- the place goes to Jonas -- Last post brought me an account of the death of Cousin Willy Shackleton -- he died (I understand) about 2 months ago -- I was pleased that I had gone to see him, & endeavoured to rouse him to make preparation for that awful change. he has left a widow in good circumstances, no child. Thou hast also heard (besure) of Sally Grubbs having got twin-daughters ^whom she was nursing --^ she had three daughters before, the eldest of whom died. I hear now & then from her sister Betsy -- the family at Tottenham much as usual -- the poor mother sometimes better, sometimes worse, never well -- the rest tolerably -- At Clonmel I met with Molly Davis (widowed maid) -- she appears a solid, religious young-woman, offered something in a private opportunity with us, which seemed savoury & pertinent -- I hear that she has since appeared publickly in ministry in a meeting at Cork -- I had a pretty Letter from her from thence. I wish her to be in the right track, & preserved steadily in it. Samuel Neale was not at the province-meeting at Clonmel, staid at home (its said) to the funeral of old Martha Hutchinson. Friends of Waterford have had a great shaking; their foundation as to inward & outward substance was tried to the uttermost. Poor Richard Jacobs house is the last that I yet hear of, which has yielded to the shock -- I had a very affecting Letter from dear Richard on the occasion. Their numerous family of 15 persons is an object of sympathy & compassion -- the more so as I believe the young men are altogether innocent of the cause of their misfortune. Their filial piety induced them to strain as it were every nerve to preserve their fathers memory from blame -- but they were obliged to succumb at last. I am told Molly has behaved with great prudence on the occasion -- I should think it must be rather felt as a humiliating stroke by her father -- I wish every dispensation may unitedly work for good -- Poor John Smithson! What trouble he & his wife must have felt on account of that foolish boy! There left us this morning Tom Eyre, a Lieutenant in the army, one of the four boys who were at school here, sons of Governor Eyre -- he had served in the late wars in America & the West-Indies, a clever sort of young man, he staid a few days with us, says that we shall be paid our money which is due for them, upwards of 300. I hardly expect it - but an old debt is better than an old grudge --
	We are generally tolerably well here I think -- my wife keeps about the house, & gets to Meeting -- wants exercise, if the frost would but disperse. We all unite in dear love to each & every of you -- Molly sends her particular message of Love, & some excuse or other, I dont know well what it is -- I have wrote thee, my dear Cousin, a rambling sort of Letter, as I love to converse with thee, shall hope to hear from thee when convenient, & am,
	thy truly affectionate friend, &c --
		Richard Shackleton

P. S. Our dear love to James Morton, & our friends at Lurgan & besure to John Pemberton if among you.

