My Beloved friend I have at length got home & am glad (if I have
any feeling that resembles gladness) to find myself here & so near thee. Thy letter
was truly welcome to me, though I was almost trembling when I opened it, as was
mostly the case whenever I get a letter - a kind of presaging dread being over me
then & still of some worse news -- perhaps only owing to the low state of my spirit.
I am ashamed almost to own any whimsies even to thee, but I also wish the 8/8 mo
was well past; it has been these two years a day to be remembered by me with
much anxiety--yet one of these days has sweet mixed with it. Ah, my friend, I have
in this absence from home discovered that I had an additional tie to Leinster wch
I never felt before, & which painfully pulled at my heart. Was I sure that a
certain gentle friend of ours was well & happy, then I would be content on that score
but when I believe his mind & body are both in a state of suffering, I fear that
gentle spirit shrinking from the conflict will leave the world for me to sorrow
in. However I hope I do not murmur that my bright prospects are at present
shaded with gloom, but sometimes endeavour to be thankful that it is so, hoping
that my heart may be made better thereby. My dear Sally Haughton I cannot
help sometimes thinking how pleasant it would be to have her in health, but I
must not dwell on that -- but strive to resign one of my earliest, my dearest, my
most engaging friends--she is much emaciated, her voice much gone, her eyes sunk
& black round them, her cough distressing, yet is cheerful, & seems to think herself
better. Anna Taverner gone to Limerick, her sweet society no longer cheers us. Dear
Peggy Birke! I fear we shall never see her again. I had not heard of T. Barrington's
death, nor even of R Shepherd's illness till thou wrote. I am quite anxious about
Betsy Birke, My dear love to that family. Neither had I heard of Susy's being at
the

the school, I hope & believe she will have the reward of peace for this sacrifice
but I feel for her more than I can express. No wonder she did not write to me,
I left Waterford last seventh day. Anne Benrose, her daughter & grandaughter
Watson accompanied me from thence to Ross on their jaunting car, there my
father met us, with Jack leading my young mare, which I had not mounted before
since thou were here; she carried me through the journey very well, & promises to
be an excellent creature. We left Ross second day morning, got to dinner to Ballydarton,
which we did not leave till after dinner next day, because our horses
had strayed in the morning, No letter very lately from Sally. Thou may think
how deserted my mother was for a while, Nancy Sparks having been obliged to
go home to her distressed sister. [unclear] MMiller [/unclear] slept here while father was away; she
goes to Dublin to-day, & expects to return about 3d or 4th day next. Mother, who
joins father & me in very dear love to thee & you all, requests thou will send
per MMellor 2 or 3 lb of good Cocoa, such as Tommy will choose for her. She
desires thou will let me know how thy sister Molly is, & what news from
Mt.melick. I long to hear from, still more to see thee. O what would I give a
sight of thy Band-box again in our Hall! Remember the Spa -remember
they friend to whom thy presence is better than many Spas. Do I love you
any thing the worse for being so long away--Ah no. Do take the first opportunity
of coming to embrace of they
Mary Shackleton
The Retreat: 1/8mo: 1788
Please mention what I owe thee for my neticoat, & also please pay Jn Edmundson
for dying my Habit.
Dear love to they Aunt Simmons, Nancy & MWilson.

Mary Bewley
Earl street
Favoured by
Dublin.
[unclear]WMellor.[/unclear]
MS to MB

