
C. Dale 13th of 1st month 1786


        As I am fully assured my silence has not proceeded from any lesning of that sweet fellowship, which I thankfully acknowledge we have often felt, both when present, and absent, so I am emboldend to take up my pen without many apologys [sic] to pay a tribute that has long been due to my Dear and highly valued Friend, R. Shackelton, and as I am sensible of having deprivd myself of more of thy valuable letters by my silence on this account I am much concernd. I have not attempted writing thee at an earlier period  tho am sensible how little I can say worthy thy acceptance 
        However thou will receive satisfaction by finding that myself and S. Appleby are safely returnd from a laborious tho short Journey into Yorkshire, wherewe [sic] have been attending Leeds Quarter Meeting, and was abundantly repayd for all the fateigue we went through, in going in an inclement season, by the several sittings being emminantly [sic] ownd, by the great Master, under whose Divine Influence, some living testimonys were borne, and I think all things conducted to the honour of Truth  which was a comfort to the lowly travilling [sic] seed of Jacob  that dare not arise until Truth rises, and are desirous to dwell with the pure seed of the Kingdom. it was pleasant to us to meet with some valuable Friends from several places, among whom was J. Pemberton, R Jones & S. Grub, also P. Brayton M Jenkins & M. Davis - The first of which went back to Newcastle. [Illegible] Jones to rest but undercliff 




My Brother Reynolds his Daughter Hannah & Brother & Sister Rathbone are gone to Bath - some of them for their health - and are better - my Brother was obliged by the Verses thou sent him as also Sister Darby - A Summerland is well & desires her love as doth my Parents  


P. Brayton with her Companion Phebe Blakes of Leeds are gone into the North of Yorkshire, and M. Jenkins with W. Davis also. it was comfortable to me, to believe the two last mentiond Friends, are made a blessing to each other  & I trust it will be a scantified [sic] dispensation to Dear Molly. Thomas Ross is still I expect at York - poorly - but something better then he has been! 
On our return home, I was much pleased to peruse a letter from thee my Dear Friend to our Beloved Mother Darby  to find you was all well at Ballitore was a satisfaction proportiond to the love we bear you  and to feel thy mind cloathed with ability to convey instruction and edification to us, was reviving  as it evidend the continued favour of Him in whom all our well springs are  how I long to witness a growth in that root which keeps living, and bears up the mind amidst all the besetments, and workings of a cruel enemy  who is still going about in all forms  in order to mar the Lords work - thou sees there is a freedom in communication, and I write things as they occur  trusting to thy affection for excuse  knowing thy desires are strong for the Religious growth of each branch of our family  and that the covenant of light & life may be maintaind between you & us, which can only be experienced by each being steady in their attention to know the Masters will concerning them, & when they know to be willing to do it  and such still are the Friends of Christ  and Dear one to another in Him 
        My Mother Darby desires her dear love and is much obliged by thy kind letter  she has been frequently attacked with a palpitation at her heart, which makes us anxious on her account  tho she is not confind, but joins us in the parlour and edifies, and comforts us 




with her Company. the rest of us are in usual heath, & unitedly wish our Love to be conveyd to thy valuable wife with each of thy family, which largely attends thyself 
from thy affectionate Cousin D. Darby
