Glendruid 6th of 4th mo
1833
My dear Eliza
This is seventh day night, I am just after
washing Richard and putting him to bed and now
I have seated myself to give thee some account of home
I got thy pleasant letter on second day night and hope
soon to get another as the time is drawing near. I
may as well begin at once. My Mother was in town
this day week, she brought me home no news so I can
not give thee any. on first day we had no one but
brother Fred - in the morning my Mother & I went
to meeting which was smaller than usual owing to
Mt. Melick. Frederic set off after dinner to go to Kingstown
to see Edward sail we intended going too but Manliff
said it would be wet and that hindered us I am sorry
we did not go for there was a sacful from Marystreet
were there and we would have met nicely. I went in
from that. Second day [underline]dismally wet[/underline]. third day a little
better I believe a fine evening. fourth I went out to ride
and met Bessy Henry at Mellifonts' gate on her way
here, I went on my ride & said I would be at home
before she left it which I was. her Mother she says
has had a heavy cold and is but middling the rest
pretty well. she had a Miss Scott with her, they came
in their Asses phaeton. just before they left this
who should come up but Frank & Lucy so thou sees

visitors any more than misfortunes, seldom come
alone. They both seem very well, Lucy I dont think
ever looked better, they dined & drank tea here and then
went on their way to town. They brought out Emy's
gig so she is quite in her element now, her weary teeth
teaze her a good deal poor little thing and sometimes
she looks very fretted, and at others her eyes are as bright
and pleasant as can be, I think she will soon begin
to speak she knows a great deal better what is said
to her than she did, when here before. fifth day
Manliff & I went to town in the gig sat a while
with Sarah who seems not quite stout saw C.C.
there. the children all well Philip's nose still sore
I wish it was well. also sat a while at Mary street
they are finely there I did not see Florence who was
asleep. Jane Stephens is there still. Richard seems
in good spirits. I just ran up to see my Aunt Gough
& caught Mary there whom I had not seen this great
while my aunt is very stiff, (not in her manners)
but in her back. We dined at Werburgh street and
saw our nephew he really is grown a huge child I
think he is bigger than Emmy. I have now given thee
an account of my doings in town save that we got
a good smart shower before we got home. sixth day
This was a beautiful day indeed all this week has
been mild, the spring shows more these few days
back than it did during a whole month before

the larch trees will now soon shew themselves, the primroses,
wood anemones & violets are looking a pretty as ever
I saw them, and the birds singing as gaily. I set the
cuttings in thy bower. I hope they may grow. Manliff
& I took a pleasant ride to day. There is no sign of the
cottages being set yet, they seem every where to be busy
settling up these houses for letting. Arthur came out
on fifth day as good Friday is a holiday. Seventh
day thou knows what we do in general of a seventh
day and this is so like the generality of them
that I cannot vary it. I did not set the travellers
joy at thy seat untill to day indeed it was a job
to get at thy cottage I had Richard with me to help
over stones briars and good smart streams
along the old walk at that side of the river
and had to take him on my back part
of the way for he is as great a botch as ever
I saw at helping himself, and will set up a shout
for very little cause, however I did get there. thy
silver fir-trees are grown very much there is so
much water in the river that we could not cross
it any where except at the plank. Sure this is
the sixth of 4th month, Lucy's wedding day and only
think it is three years since, how fast the time
goes we were very busy this day three years, it seems
much earlier in the season this year than it
did then, it was a pleasant day! I have not asked
thee any thing about thyself or thy doings, Betsy B

has returned ere this I suppose has Jane C gone back to
Ballitore. Thou I suppose art at Moone from what thou
said in thy letter is it not a nice little place, it is
greatly improved since thou wert there before, and
much altered in many respects how dost thou like
Ellen at home. but all these things I expect thou wilt
tell without waiting for me to ask them and many
more also. Do not be out of patience before thou gets
this for we are all well here, my Mother busy as ever
as [underline]overseer[/underline] Manliff is also finely. I believe in the whole
of my letter I told thee no news. Ally is to sail soon
for America & Hen[insertion]r[/insertion]y Evans is to go with her. Johnny Evans
Caroline & her husband are to go to Van Dieman's land
I believe it is all broken off between Johnny & Sally at
least Manliff says that she was only making a fool of

[unclear]as[/unclear] she did of many others before. Rachel is rejoiced he is going
to get out of the nasty set he is connected with she could not
bear he should marry a [unclear]Bugan[/unclear]. I believe I will bid thee
farewell for to night if I have any thing new tomorrow I
can add it before I send this in which I expect to do by
some opportunity tomorrow. my Mother sends her dear
love also the boys. I forgot to scold thee for going out so
much at night and for getting cold it is a thing of which
I do not approve, nor never will so please to be more prudent
for the future. with dear love to thyself and hoping
soon to hear from thee I am my dear Eliza thy affectionate
Sister Selina
dear love to Betsy B and Elizth.

5
Eliza Barrington
 [underline]Ballitore[/underline]

