Ballitore : 10th.. of 12th.. month 1822
My dear Friend,
Even thy reproofs, say reproaches, are so pleasantly or rather so
goodnaturedly administered that I must call them excellent oil, not
as Burke called Johnson's, oil of vitriol. I do plead guilty to the first
charge. I was so delighted with Theodore that I did permit two frds.
to hear it read. But it was not I who sent it to the Farmer's Journal
I thought it was thyself. Speaking of the Cottage Fireside to William
Griffith, I really believed he knew who was the author, or should not
have divulged it. As to the real names, they remain buried in my
bosom - & I hope to behave in these respects hereafter as thou would have
me to do. I really did not know the little book was a secret, so do
forgive me - far be it from me to pain one so dear to me.
I wish to hear of thy grand nephews. I think I understood the eldest was
apprenticed. My nephew George Shackleton was delighted with his visit
to you. Thou made a deep impression on his mind, & he is thy professed
admirer. Did thou hear what his errand was to Limerick? To endeavour
to obtain Hannah Fisher, Joseph's daughter, & sister to my intended
+ at least I do not recollect doing so & wondered to see Edward there

son-in-law. She was on a visit to us, when she engaged the affections
of my worthy nephew, & a worthy, amiable creature he is, & so is she.
She is but twenty, has great stability, goodsense & I believe religious feeling
she is accomplished, scientific & a classical scholar, does not despise, but does
not delight in poetry or works of imagination. Humble, modest & simple
she appears as if she knew nothing. George's success is as yet uncertain, her
father's illness checks the proceedings. He has had a [deletion]dystenary[/deletion] dysentery but
I hope is better. Old James Fisher is dead, & his widow paralytic. I wish
we may obtain Hannah - it will make some amends for resigning my
dear, gay, affectionate Lydia, the separation from whom I look towards
with a kind of dread. Sarah is so much nearer to us that it was less painful
to resign her - & yet should not thankfulness rather than regret be
the companion of our minds, that our dear children are not taken from
us by the hand of death, but given to worthy protectors
As to forbidding matrimony among the poor; it cannot be done I own,
but I expect education will do much towards amending their condition,
& that foresight will be a consequence. Thy tribute to my dear fathers
memory is precious to me, & my dear mother's also. I am glad thou
likes my memoir. Alas I am sorry for the infirmities thou mentions.
did thou ever try [insertion]fine[/insertion] salt in the ear at night for deafness, to be

persisted in for a while. I honour those young persons who love your
company - this choice speaks well for all parties. Tell them another
old woman sends her love to them. I was rejoiced to hear of the
world before the flood. I forgot I had lent it to thee & thought it was lost.
Our Elizabeth is at home, & very busy, keeping me a gentlewoman
She loves thee well, but is not beside me to tell thee so. My love to thy
sister
Thine had no date
Received it yesterday. I sent this to Adam Calvert
ever thine sincerely
Mary Leadbeater

Adam Calvert
For
A: Roberts
38 Thomas street
Mountrath

