From the same to the same


Ballitore 13th of 11th month 1783


My dear friend,


        I acknowledge to have received two acceptable letters from thee, to which I have not before replied. Affectionate friendship was not wanting, but a variety of engagements prevented my writing sooner. I now dearly salute thee and inform thee that thy acquaintance here are generally well & retain their ^sincere^ love and esteem for their beloved Anna Taverner. Thou hast many kind and cordial friendsSo that if in some few circumstances thou should have cause of uneasiness, there are many others which are agreeable: and this is not the place where unmixed happiness and uninterrupted tranquillity [sic] are to be expected. We are seen, the structure of our inward man, and all its parts are perfectly known. The Great Author of our being best knows what will be most conducive to our well-being, with what kind of alloy, & in what proportion to temper the cup of life for each of us. We are poor, frail creatures, and unless the gracious hand of Providence protected, circumscribed and limited, as well as supported, we would ^[pencil written over with modern pen] should^ be miserable indeed. But his fatherly care is extended, and his watchful eye prevents and provides for the wants of his visited children, who humbly and steadily look and lean towards him, and depend upon ^him^. Canst not thou, my dear friend, say hitherto he has helped me?  Be encouraged therefore still to trust and confide in that sure help, nothing doubting: feel daily and hourly after [page number] 245 inward [note left margin XX] support, that thou may be endued with strength and wisdom of the best kind to do and to suffer according to the divine will, every present day. Dont keep thyself too much confined sitting in one place, nor let thy thoughts be too much and too long unprofitably poring on any one thing: but use necessary exercise of body, and do not dwell contemplating the gloomy, but turn thy attention to the brighter side of things. It is not the will of our Great Master that his disciples should be cast down below measure: his gracious language is, Why are ye troubled, and why do thoughts arise in your hearts? And again, Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in one.
        Since I saw thee I saw several of thy friends and relations in England, who enquired kindly after thee. I returned from thence with John Pemberton and William Matthews. We sailed from Liverpool, seemed to be in imminent danger of our lives on the voyage, but the ship striking several times on a bank, but we providentially escaped. Indeed in our return home the other day from Dublin, we have to commemorate the merciful deliverance of good Providence, my wife, M & S having been very nearly over-turned in a deep ditch by the roadside. So that numberless are the favours which we are daily and hourly receiving at his bountiful hand. Let us then, my dear Anna, lift up our heads and hearts unto him: let us wait steadily and diligently upon him, & not distrust his merciful care & preservation, which is ^ever^ over those who fear him, and hope in him.
        My wife and children salute thee with much affection. Our kind love to thy mother, thy uncle and aunt Taverner, William MAllisters & Thomas Marks families
        I am, my dear Anna, 
                thy affectionate friend
                        Richard Shackleton




