Garrett Green 23 June 1812
Dear Cousin,
This I dare say comes unexpected; indeed
I marvel that I have summed up courage to address
you, as I am not enabled to write on the subject
I wish, in an effectual manner, & there can be no use
in touching on it in the apologizing stile - It is
however seldom with-drawn from my thoughts. My
motive in now intruding on you is business, I want
advice & think you are now, from experience, competent
to administer it profitably, & doubt not, from your
innate benevolence, every propensity to comply. From
being convinced of the vanity, or at all events the
uncertainty, of depending on the illusory promises
of persons of superior rank, my mind has been for
some time engaged in meditating on plans for
future subsistence, independent of those promises,
(on which, being unsolicited, I confess I had placed
I crave excuse for filling up my paper without mentioning my regards to my friends old & new
be assured they are unabated. I am Dear Mary yours sincerely
Wm Rayner

considerable reliance:) I called to mind a mode that
had been adopted many years ago by Barcroft
Booke in Bublin, by which I understood he made
a comfortable livelihood - I had endeavoured to get into
the same in Waterford, & found it beneficial as far
as I could accomplish it. The employment is, keeping
the Leger, or principal Book of Accounts, for
people in business - if I could confine myself to that
alone, & had my own hours for attendance, I could undertake
to act for 4 or 5 different concerns. Dublin I
imagine would afford a better field for exertion;
it was therefore my intention, after September to seek
for such employment there. Mean time an improvement
in the Science was presented to my view; which I think
may prove of considerable utility; my wish, before
I made it known, was to secure some benefit for the
family out of it, which, I consider from information,
can only be attained by having it published, &
procuring the Copyright - the mode of procedure
I am entirely unacquainted with, & am desirous of

every information that can be obtained on the subject,
before I determine . I have adapted the system to the
transactions of 3 months, of Accounts formerly kept
by myself, to which I was permitted access, & am
the more confirmed in my opinion of the practicability
of my plan. I have nearly arranged the
intere, & am about to transcribe a fair copy. I judge
the Book would consist of about 130 pages of
Letter-press, large Octavo; but have no
idea of what the expense might be,
or the price that should be set on it,
if I solicit for subscription - the
number of Copies that should be
printed, or whether it would be better to have it
executed in England, or in Ireland, or in both.
Should it turn out beneficial, I would like to leave such
a legacy to my family; at all events the publishing it
might further my plan by procuring me employment.
There is another matter I request you may do if possible, probably
some of my Grandfathers or Uncles papers might procure
information, at what time I made my appearance on this stage
of mutability; in case the Life Insurers make any inquiry after my departure

pd5
Mrs Leadbeater
Ballitore
KILKENNY
ansd 25th

