To Fairhead in the Co. Antrim. By Mr. Davy London.
Fair are the noblest forms of art, and fair
The mimic excellence, which genius cloathes
the tints that waken into perfect life;
Delightful is the harmony of thought
Which from the mind creative can produce
The beautiful, decorous, or sublime;
These faculties are glorious, but they are
As dreams, as semblances, remote and faint
Of the eternal and mysterious power
Which lives and moves unaltered, of that power
From whom the great realities arise,
Which forms the life of nature, and the change,
And endless motion of all natural things;
A power most amply felt, and best conceiv'd
In that tumultuous passion of the soul,
When new sensations from the outward world
Impress themselves in rapture:
Such of late
Have often visited my changeful mind,
Amidst the awful rocks and stormy shores
Of Northern Erin - and have kindly left
A lovely vision, which will never die,
Hence in the busy stirrings of the world,
And in the weariness of active life
Oft shall I image in their vividness
The lofty promontory, and the cliffs,
And the wide ocean, and the moving air
Raising the wave:
But chiefly thee Fairhead
Unrivalled in thy form and majesty,
For on thy mighty summit I have walked
In the bright sunshine, whilst beneath my feet
The clouds have roll'd in splendor, hiding now
As if reluctantly, whilst full in view
The blue tide wildly roll'd skirted with foam,
And bounded by the green and smiling land.

The deep pale mountain, and the purple sky;
Stupendous cliffs, the birth of unknown years
Long have the billows beat thee, long the flood
Rush'd o'er the pillar'd rocks, ere life adorned
Thy broken surface, ere the yellow moss
Had tinted thee, or the soft dew of [deletion][/deletion] Heaven
Crown'd thee with verdure, or the Eagles made
Thy caves their airy -
So in after time
long shalt thou rest unalter'd 'midst the wreck
Of all the mightiness of human works:
For not the lightning, nor the whirlwind's force,
Nor all the waves of ocean thou shall prevail
Against thy giant strength, and thou shalt stand
'Till that Almighty voice which bade thee rise
Shall bid thee fall.
To Pleasker in the Co. Antrim.
The billows break around thee, and thy tints
Enrich the bosom of the ocean wave;
Wild is thy broken outline, where curve
Of varied beauty, and the abrupt sublime
Impress a mingled feeling, the wild storm
That whitens thy foundations, troubles not
[unclear][/unclear] with its slightest spray, its topmost crag
Such is thy loftiness, thy giant form
Supreme, thy majesty yet still enhanced
By wondrous semblances, closely allied
To perfect art, displaying such design
As kindled in the great creative mind
Of Him whose genius warm in life and power,
From all the elements that nature gave
Of grand or lovely, with the nicest skill
Selective, those that bind in harmony,
And raised as if by the magicians art,
The gothic pile, magnificent and chaste
In airy lightness, yet unrivalled strength,
Beauteous in parts, majestic as a whole;
Pleasker, the fancy wakens as the sense
Glows at thy noble features, and the mind
Is carried back to those remoter times

When superstition imaged in his power,
Thy Danish King with more than mortal strength
With more than mortal attributes endowed;
Whose mighty feet dash back the foaming sea,
whose mighty arm uprear'd the pillar'd rocks
Of Erin's lovely Isle.
Lisburn January 29th 1810
I hope my dear friend, thou will admire the two
poems I have copied for thee. I was quite delighted with them.
I received a little note from Betsy a few days ago, & find we do not
quite agree in opinion about "Stories for calumniators." Indeed I do not
think nature ever intended Mr. Trotter for either a poet or a novel
writer, yet I must admire some parts of "Stories for calumnicators."
I think the whole story of Sophy's madness is highly ridiculous, but
whenever the unhappy state of Ireland, & the crueties which were
committed by the government party, is mentioned, I think every one
interested about their country must admire it. I expect there will
soon appear a critique on it in the Belfast Magazine, tho' not
written by one of the Proprietors as none of them can praise the
[unclear]ole[/unclear] book, and they are afraid to censure it, as [unclear]Mr.[/unclear]
not on the [underline]best terms[/underline] with the magazine proprietors.
I would be much obliged to thee at any time thee has [underline]entirely[/underline]
done with "Pieces of Irish History," & Memoirs of Counsellor Sampson,
to send them to me by some opportunity, as there are very few
copies of either books in Ireland, & Miss McCracken has sent me many
messages about them. Thou need not return any books thou has of ours
until we go to Ballitore, which I [underline]hope[/underline] will be in May. Please tell
Betsy that James Uprichard intended going to Dublin this week.
I hope some of the Ballitore magazines will be sent in the parcel
with the gloves. Thomas Phelps is so ill, that we expect
every day to hear an account of his death. He is now entirely
confined to his room, & Dr Crawford told me a few days ago
that he need not go to Moyallon again as he had not the
smallest hopes of his recovery. John Phelps is recovering very slowly
from his last fit of insanity. I had wished very much
that some of poor Ben Haughton's Ballitore friends had written
a little sketch of his character and very amiable disposition, for
the Belfast magazine. My father has written a very short account;
[insertion]x[/insertion]Sien McConel,
one of the Irish
giants.

I pity poor Jane very much. My father's rheumatism is much
better, tho' he is still far from stout. I have been very busily
engaged this week past in reading Belsham's History of George
the 3rd. I do not think I have ever met with a book of History
in which I have been more interested. My father wishes me to
begin to read Gibbon's Roman empire, but twelve volumes frighten
me. I know if I once began to read it I would finish it, but I want
courage. I have not read Gertrude of Wyoming yet, but I hope to
get it next week. I have sent one of thy books to my excellent
friend Houlbrooke, as I know he always likes to hear any thing from
Ballitore; indeed he scarcely ever writes to me without mentioning
you all, Betsy Shackleton in particular. Will thy Dialogues soon
appear? when they are printed I am sure I could sell some of them.
I hope the 50 copies of the anecdotes will soon arrive, as one of
the booksellers has requested me to send him some as soon as I can.
Please tell Betsy that I have got a new market for her gloves,
which I hope will prove profitable. I have been a good deal
hurried to have this written before post hour, & must now conclude
in haste, thy very affectionate S Hancock
LISBURN
73
Single sheet
Mary Leadbeater
Ballitore
I hope Barclay & Thomas [unclear][/unclear] are well; they are
both very great favorites [unclear][/unclear] all.
S Hancock
Lisburn 29/1 mo 1810
and . . 7/2 -

