August 8th
1822?
My Dear Eliza
You told me to write yesterday, when
I would be alone, but I felt myself so much indisposed, in the
evening when I had time, from a cold; that I could not set about
it. I begin however this evening. I did not arrive in town on Tuesday
till after the coaches though I left Ballitore earlier, so I rather lost in
pleasure though gained in [unclear]purse[/unclear]. I found them anxiously expecting
me. Edward had doubts of my coming at all, but my father did not
give me up. The whole family were on the fidgets about the excursion
to Poula Fouca. Richard came home last night about 11 OClock
I learned some of the particulars from him, there were a party of
[unclear]32[/unclear] sat down to dinner, they spent a very pleasant day altogether.
Hearing my Aunt Fayle was going to Edenderry I went to see her
this evening, She is going in the morning, I saw there the Malones
and heard more particulars of the party, both from them and Sally.
they were all highly pleased. I hear Jas Fisher was there. I wish he
had arrived in Ballitore before I left it, I should like much to see him.
I suppose you had a busy town of it on Wednesday evening, with all the
newcomers, you will please write me an account of it.
Aug 23. You may see by the dates, that the former point of this letter
was written, sometime before this part. I was an Invalid for
some time, and was out at Glendruid recruiting my health, I have
now arrived in town to resume business, and to relieve Edward

and Richard from my share of employment. I received your note
informing me of the arrangements for the lodgings of the strangers
in Ballitore, they were greatly disappointed in not being able to proceed
on their excursion, poor Manliff had a long bout of it, he
was very weak, he had been out at the Glen these few days back
and still remains there.
30th I sit down to finish this letter to send it by R S Leadbeater. I send
with it your extract Book and another which I do not know
if it will answer or not, if it does not I will change it. Aunt Fayle
is come home and Loveday with her, they were out at the Glen
on Sunday. James Fisher was here on Saturday and Sunday
he introduced himself to me upstairs having met, coming out
of our rooms, I being suprised to see a strange man in the house,
I not knowing of his coming. I hear you had John Jacob at Ballitore for
sometime you are not long without newcomers there, did you see
Jos Abel since his return from his Scotch tour with his budget of wonders
Jacob Harvey has had a fever and is recovering slowly, since we enjoyed,
his [unclear]stories[/unclear] in Ballitore. We had William Bennett here for a short
time I was ill when I heard he was come and was afraid I should
not see him, but that evening I was down in the parlour for the first
time and was just going to bed [deletion]forth[/deletion] at 9 OClock when in he comes
and I had the pleasure of seeing him till eleven, we could not get
him to go out to Glendruid his time not permitting I wish he may once
soon again and stay longer.

I hope you have many fine sun sets, to shew off the Mountains
to advantage, for they are gloriously covered with furze and heath
I walked to the Scalp and Shankhill and also to the top of the
three Rock Mountain [insertion]with Lucy Selina and Emily[/insertion] when I was in the country and the mountains
were as Rich with Purple and Gold as ever I saw them, this would
be the time to see the Co Wicklow in style. I must see Luggelaw
this year if I can suppose I go by myself, but the pleasure is
doubled when you have some one to enjoy the pleasure with you
and to exclaim "look at that Mountain" "look in the Valley below there
and "Oh Oh look there" did you ever see the like. also to look on
in silent astonishment at the effects of the scenery.
Edward and R S L went out to the Glen
yesterday evening, they had a glorious sunset
the mountains being illuminated by various
shades of light till darkness spread a veil over them. They were
lights. I left off there and in looking at it again I forget what I was
going to say
I remain your
John

Eliza Gough

