      4th from the same to the same
Ballitore 9/1 month: 1771
Samuel Elly
Dear Friend,


++ As I thought you would be uneasy to know how my Father is, I write pretty soon to let you know about him. His disorder is called a bilious colick he has at times undergone a great deal of pain ^with it^.  We hoped that he was getting the better of it, but he had a severe return of it 6th inst: He is again pretty cheerful, and free from pain; but it seems uncertain whether there is not danger of a relapse. It is very affecting to see a man so far advanced in years, and so highly favoured by his Great Creator, struggling under the pangs of exquisite bodily pain. It is a forcible document to us all, that in the time of reasonable health of body and tranquility of mind we be diligent to lay up a treasure which will stand us instead against such an evil day. This treasure, ye know, dear friends, is to be favoured with a capacity of access to Divine Favour, which is all sufficient to sweeten every bitter cup & to fortify our spirits against every conflict, that of death the last.  We yet hope it may be consistent with Infinite Wisdom to spare my dear Father to us a little longer, but resignation is a lesson which we have all occasion to learn.
I suppose ye have heard before now of the safe passage of our friend Samuel Neale to the American shore: he writes ^me^ that he landed there 18/10 month last after a passage of eight weeks - that he met with his companion (Joseph Oxley) Samuel Emlen and several friends on his road to Philadelphia after his landing to great satisfaction -that his old companion William Brown received him with much cordiality, and looked as well, and almost as young as when he was in Ireland that he understood John Churchman and Susanna Lightfoot were well - that a friend Robert Willis had set out from thence a little before his arrival on a religious visit to friends in Europe - that two women friends Sarah Morris & Elizabeth Smith were to follow in the spring - that friends there are very numerous and seem a solid, weighty body, have an ear open to hear. He writes of his particular satisfaction  and unity with his companions service, very humbly and savourily concerning his own.
I thought this little intelligence would not be unacceptable to you, my dear friend in your own little corner because I am persuaded you love the Truth, and the friends of it are dear to you. I was glad to hear from his mother that Sammy behaves agreeably. I hope he will continue to do so, to love home, love retirement, read, at his leisure from necessary business, the holy scriptures, and the historical accounts of the lives, conflicts, travellings, jeopardies, sufferings and latter ends of our ancient worthies. Let him consider what gained them the title of worthies and hath transmitted them their names with such dignity to posterity.  Sammy has ^& has had^ many advantages which many have not been favoured with. In an especial manner I would have him be exceedingly choice of his company in that place: he has a faithful witness within him which will not fail to testify to his conscience when he joins with any unsuitable company, or improper thing, and which will also testify its unity with his conduct and give him the comfortable sanction of its approbation when he chooses the best company, and does that only which he believes in his conscience to be right. +++ My sincere love and good wishes attend you all: and in these I am joined by my honest wife, my honest wife, my father & children. Farewell
Richard Shackleton
