My dear Cousin,                                                Ballitore: 13/10 month 1776.
	I believe I wrote to thee a few times 6th instant My son is not yet returned, I heard from him from Cork; he expected to be home this day, he is no idler, he loves home, & his business; & loitering is irksome to him. I have taken to school again in his absence, & if there was a necessity for it, might put on that armour again. I was poorly, as John writes, but am now finely recruited though favour. My wife is but middling, sister Carleton much as usual, thy mother stout, was at meeting to day. Tom Chandlee was here lately, they were bravely at Athy, only that Abby had been complaining of some indisposition, of which I hope she is now better. I hope thy brother James got safe & well home from his English Tour: may he grow in stability & in the Experience of Good! Trials, probations, Exercises & afflictions we must expect to meet with: they help to consolidate the vessel & make it staunch: the smell of the fire is agreeable on such.My English friends & new acquaintance there have been very kind in writing to me from many Quarters: its pleasant to hear from ones friends, but the keeping up an extensive correspondence is attended with trouble & expence, I mean expence of that best thing which we ought to use a prudent frugality about, & not be lavish of what is not at our command. Robert Dudley is gone for England: Robert Grubb is returned from it. Thomas Wily & Edward Halton are likewise gone thither. Friends on the new-appointed visit are drawing to one another, in classes, & bending to different Quarters ^there^. The principal men in Ireland should know best where they are, & whether they be improperly standing, looking one upon another.Since I wrote the other side, my son arrived in good health, brings agreeable account of our Relations in Munster. I believe Peggy intends to next half-years meeting: her sister Debby will stay with her I suppose till she comes. How is thy honest son Joseph now? is he quite stout & hearty? I hope thy little flock all shape as if they would be a comfort to thee: there will be a variety of tempers & dispositions & capacities, as there is a variety of features, complection & stature: but all seasoned by Divine Virtue may happily answer the end of Creation, which is the Glory of the Creator, & the happiness of the Creature. Their welfare is very dear to us.
	My wife, & join me in dear love to thee, thy father & children.
I am, my dear Cousin,
very affectionately thine
Richard Shackleton.
