Ballitore 13th of 11th mo (1810)
My Dear Sister, 
tho' I sit down to write to thee I
do not expect my letter will be acceptable,
but however, here goes, no matter, as
it does not go by post. Aunt Sally
dined here to day and was as agreeable as
usual. my Father is not come from Dublin
yet. I su[insertion]p[/insertion]pose Deborah told thee [insertion]of[/insertion] our dear
little Richard's death he was buried before breakfast
this morning; none of us went to the funeral
for we did not know when it was to be
till it was over. James took it very much
to heart, he wept coming out of the graveyard
and told my Aunt Sally (who was
with him) that he su[insertion]p[/insertion]posed some would
think it very silly. but my Aunt told
she thought natural affection was not
to be thought silly. Winny came
to Mary & Ann's to get a shroud for
Richard, with tears in her eyes and said
she feared she would have worse news when

she would go home, for Davy was
very ill and she heard he was worse.
( he is 19 th pnely now )
poor nurse I pitied her greatly.
My Aunt Sally, Mary & Ann Doyle
Mary Ann Lydia & Richard all send
their love to thee & Mary Ann:
we are all longing for thy return
Mary & Ann say they never missed
thee so much, and I'm sure its the same
way with us all. We burn coal in
the parlour ever since Deborah came
down stairs. the potato digging is not
over yet and of course we are very
busy. I hope thee will answer this if
thee thinks it worthy of one.
so farewell dear joseph. i am thy affecionate
sister Sarah Leadbeater
P. S. Mary Kerns sends her love to thee
And wishes greatly for thy return
Molly Haughton & Sally gatchell send
their dear love to thee

Hannah Plinket ( the Mistresses daughter)
came to see her the other day and
had her little daughter with her
she is a very fine child and a great
deal hansomer than Mary Anderson
Poor Kitty Mitchell has breathed
her last. there is a great many
(are) dieing about here , Jem Scott has caught
the fever and the Doctor was called
in Nelly Ellis has got a young
daughter this letter has been written
near two weeks ago and waiting for
an opportunity and got one at last
so against advice my dear sister
I am thine truly
Sarah Leadbeater

Elizabeth Leadbeater
Bloomville

