
                                                                Coalbrook Dale 7th month 1st 1783 


My Dear Cousin 


        Thy kind letter to my Dear Mother afforded us all much satisfaction, to find that all your desires were so fully answerd and that you found all your near connections well9, is an additional blessing to many before received, and for which we join you in thankfulness to that good hand from whom evry [sic] thing truely [sic] excellent proceeds thy kind solicitude to hear how my Dear Aunts illness terminated inducess us to write by the first frost on my return from Salop - the evening we parted I found her worse - she continued in much stillness but got weaker very fast until 7th day morning the 18th of last month. she quietly departed about 1/2 past 5 oClock. this has been a trying dispensation to her tenderly affectionate Sister but the hope that was granted both herself & Ann Summerland in particular as well as other exercised minds, that prayer was accepted & mercy extended affords much comfort and support under it - it was always her earnest request to have her remains interred at Newcastle which was complyed with and accompanied by her Son H - they left this place on [illegible] day the 22 [illegible word] - and we hope would reach Newcastle on 2nd day last -- 
We was at our Quarterly Meeting on 4th] day - which was fully attended considering we are but a small number of Friends belonging to it - Mother Darby got out tho but poorly yet I hope she had much cause to believe herself divinely supported through great fateigue [sic]. She had a public meeting in the evening of the day, which was solemnly quiet, and the next morning went to visit the Prisoners accompanied by her Children, A. Summerland, and several other Friends - it was cause of much thankfulness to many minds to feel best help so emminantly [sic] near which chaind down those opposing spirits that they all sat with great solidity while much excellent advice was conveyd accompanied by that which fully proves the continued compassionate regard of him, who when he was personally upon earth was called ^a^ Friend of Publicans and Sinners. there was near a hundred present. The opportunity was in the Chappel [sic] of the Prison by permission of the Clergyman that attends them, who has always been very civil to my Mother on such occasions -- 
        I trust it is not necessary to assure you of our grateful sense of the favor done us by your company - or that the varied seasons of favor allotted us together returns with much sweetness, as bread cast upon the waters that is found after many days -- and we hope you will remember our situation, surrounded with weakness and infirmities, yet I trust always, wishing well to truth, & to its Friends  whenever thou feels thyself at liberty to write us, thy letters will meet a sincere welcome. thou will consider this as my Mothers reply, conveyd by my pen, as writing is troublesome to her, and thou will find by this rough scrawl how fully I loose [sic] all fear of thy abilitys [the following word is covered by a red seal on the document] the knowledge of thy friendship 
        You still continue abundantly favord with the company of well qualified Servants, whose welfare & safety is acceptable intelligence to us, and if it suits thee to convey it, our dear love attends them we heard John Gough was at Birmingham on 4th day. we would gladly hope he might be bending this way but have had no intimations of the kind-- Brother Reynolds & his Daughter is not returnd from Bristol. Sister H [?] Cousins are well - when thou writes James Able convey our dear love, & tell him his Company was pleasant to us  we unitedly wish you to accept much Love. And am thy poor, but affectionate Cousin
                                                                        D. Darby 


our Dear Friends at Salop[?] enquird after you with much affection & desired dear Love  Sally Stephenson has also wrote & desired I would convey the first account of your safety -- H.  Bevington is much improoved [sic] in her health 




