Richard Shackleton to Elizabeth Dale. Ballitore 10 month 24th 1762 


Dear Cousin,--I perused a letter of thine to my sister R. and a secret sympathy, strengthened by the affection of natural relation induces me to commence a correspondence with thee. I have lamented dear Cousin, that a person blessed with a good natural understanding, improved by a good education, descended from religious ancestors, who were honoured with bearing testimony & suffering for the cause of Truth; and who, was doubtless, by birthright and religious care, made sensible, as it were, of the essence of true religion,--I say I have lamented that such a one as thou, shouldst through the subtilty [sic] of the serpent that beguiled Eve, have been made instrumental, through the strong influence of thy example, to lay waste our Christian testimony relative to mixed marriages. And which is a consideration still more grievous, long observation has proved the truth, that few who have been overtaken in this great fault, though favoured with the gift of sincere repentance, and it is hoped accepted in themselves, have ever after been of much service in the Society. They have walked mournfully on their way, through a path of inward and outward affliction, and have been as living monuments for others to take warning at, and beware. Thus thou knowest, dear Cousin, it has been with divers [sic]; and the opinion I have of thy good sense, makes me not fear I shall give offence by this plain manner of writing; at the same time, that my sincere regard for thy welfare and happy restoration, makes me willing to drop any hint, which improved by thy own reflection, &c. may contribute in any little degree to that desirable end. But neither, dear Cousin, would I discourage thee in the least from that good resolution, which thou seemest to have happily taken, of returning like the poor Prodigal to the fathers house. 
        I mention the evil of thy transgression, not that I believe thee insensible of it thy self, nor that I would increase thy afflictions and add grief to thy sorrows; but as this offence has long appeared to me to be of a grievous and complicated nature--a stain, though not of the deepest die [sic], as some gross pollutions, yet not easily worn out, thou mayest with more humble prostrations, with more deep contrition of spirit, and with more steady attention of mind, seek unto Him, whose law thou hast transgressed, and taught others to do, by the most cogent of precepts, thy own example; and if this, dear Cousin be thy constant, uniform, inward travail and exercise; to witness from day to day this baptism, which alone can wash and make clean; though thy transgression has been of a nature which I have repeatedly felt to be displeasing to the Almighty, yet I hope by this means (not only as thou very sensibly writes) thou mayest be outwardly reinstated in the union of our Society, but wilt in His time, perhaps in the depths of trouble, witness that secret union and reconciliation with Him which will be thy present support to bear up thy drooping head; and be thy joyful earnest and assurance of a rest in the kingdom, where the wicked one and his agents cease from troubling; which, in sincere affection is my desire for thee. Our familys love &c RS.
