My dear Cousin,                                                  Ballitore: 23/7 month 1778
	I am favoured with thine of 15th - the Contents were read to my dear Sister Carleton, & no doubt were pleasing to her, particularly that part where thou so feelingly mentions your ancient friendship, & the fresh Reviving of it in thy mind from a sympathy with her sufferings. Her sufferings have been long & various indeed, her bodily affliction often great, but she is now I hope happily & mercifully released out of them all. She suffered a good deal of pain for several days with her disorder, & with the means prescribed for the removal of it. Latterly she look composing potions to get rest & allay the pain; which I believe had in some degree the effect desired: but she very gradually grew weaker, & drew her last breath yesterday between 10 & 11 oclock in the forenoon to appearance very quietly, without stirring I believe hand or foot. She had past the night with tolerable composure, but altered early in the morning, & said very little to any of us - She was an honest, upright, downright woman, of great sincerity & steady friendship, more in substance than in Show - she hated evil ways, & had a great dislike to evil persons who were deaf to reproof & advice. She had liberal sentiments, & an open heartedness & generosity superior to her income - Her charity & compassion was very great & extensive considering her situation in life  her house was much resorted to by the poor, who received from her both pity, skilful advice & medicine gratis - Her loss will be greatly felt hereabouts - She made no parade, nor ostentation of her acts of benevolence - she was well acquainted with human nature, & knew the worthlessness (comparatively speaking) of many that she relieved - but this did not discourage her from doing all the good that was in the power of her hand to do. My obligations & those of my children to her are great & numerous - She watched with a sharp, attentive eye for my interest & the welfare of my children, & I believe was made a help & a blessing in the hand of Providence to them. She is gone, & we have lost that temporary stay. We purpose to inter her Remains here next First-day at the Rise of the first meeting - My Wife & the children bear this dispensation I hope with proper & becoming Resignation, & I humbly hope it will be sanctified to us all, that whatever wind blows on the spices whether the unpleasant (though perhaps profitable) north-wind, or the more grateful, welcome southern, they may flow out as a sweet savour to the great husband man, who has graciously condescended to cultivate the garden. My wife (through favour) is at present in tolerable health  my daughter Molly I hope will recruit when the sharp edge of this keen affliction will be a little worn off by time - he rest of us pretty well, all of us much pleased to hear thy son James & Tommy Chandlee are recruiting so finely - My wife wonders Tommy does not write - We are glad to hear that more good is coming out of Nazareth (Lurgan.) Is not thy Cousin Macomson Sister Grubbs sister? Thy poor sister Sinton! how fares it with her? Does she recover? We got the Usquebaugh safe, & are much obliged by thy care. Please mind to deduct the amount from my bill - But mind: I beg ye will not remit to me till ye grow rich, & its quite convenient to you; for I am in no want. We will be glad to see John safe returned to us, hope he will have a cheerful countenance to show us, & not turn the dull hemisphere of his face towards his old friends who may remain here. We love him & would have him love us - Well, how did thou come off in speaking to John Greers wife? for the duty seemed to ripen into a burden with thee. I hope thou laid it down in proper time & place. Unfaithfullness will always make thee dwarfish. But give & thou wilt increase. Cousin John & Jonathan Carleton are come, expecting to see dear Sister, but she has given them the Slip, so they purpose to stay the funeral - All our dear love attends thee & all of you.
Thy truly affectionate kinsman
Richard Shackleton
D. Carletons decease
