The Negro To
Edmund Burke.
O thow our country's boast our age's pride
Freedom's firm friend, & pity's generous guide
Great Burke, who hastes when Misery's voice complains,
And Nature's violated law maintains -
Hark! Nature speaks in injured Africk's right,
And deeds of horrour are disclosed to light;
Thou wert not silent that important day,
On such a theme thou coudst not silent stay.
When such a voice arose in such debate,
And truth roll'd onward with impetuous weight,
Who dared to vindicate the impious deed,
And with unblushing front for slavery plead?
Are not thy laws, O Britain wise & good,
Though oft the sword of justice drops with blood?
If murder stain the ruffian's cruel hand,
Or rapine seize what labour should demand,
The Life is forfeit social ties are o'er,
And the just laws protect the wretch no more,
And shall these laws to curb oppression made
Shall these defend Oppression's guilty trade?
Shall rapine wild, shall murder foul with gore
Ravage unblamed affrighted Africk's shore
And vilest treachery basely bear away
From the loved native Land the human prey
And venturous man resolve (more rash than brave)
Resolve to make his fellow-man a slave?
But

But that hard heart which could not here relent
Soon finds the crime become the punishment.
The generous boast of liberty is flown,
The seeds of vengeance are by slavery sown:
Ruling dejected men with sovereign-sway
The Tyrant looks that [underline]all[/underline] mankind obey;
With disappointed pride his haughty breast;
Burns, & tumultuous passions rack his rest;
Or in their wretched huts while captives weep,
See keen remorse roused by the wailings deep
Stalk round his nightly couch & murder sleep,
What though wealth on thee pour her golden flood,
(Ah! dearly purchased with thy brother's blood!)
Wealth buys not peace - the poor man pities thee -
Wouds't thou be happy? - Set thy captives free.
How oft did Woolman's tears these woes deplore,
When his pure spirit mortal clothing wore?
He stood a sign the wondering world among;
Nor touch'd the product of oppressive wrong;
He saw he mourn'd the hapless Negro's fate,
Bound in the horrours of a captive state,
Saw Nature's tenderest ties asunder tore
To swell the unfeeling Master's sordid store,
And deeds of deadly die, & foulest shame
Affix dishonour on the Christian name,
Heard the deep groans the sable bosom's rend. -
(Shall not these groans to pitying heaven ascend,)
"And these are they" he cried "whose labouring hands
"With ceaseless toil maintain those peopled lands;
"To them the means of life are scarce supply'd,
"While their Lords revel in luxurious pride:
"And yet the right of liberty is theirs
"No duty dooms them to these servile cares,
"And though proud man has mercy's law denied,
"These are the Souls for which a Saviour died;
"And

"And how we act to these we must reply
"To him who views mankind with equal eye."
So spoke the sage - & glad his heart had been,
Had he the dawning day of freedom seen -
O favour'd age! - the genial beams expand
The feeling bosom, & the liberal hand -
The poor are pitied - all are Nature's sons,
And softened man his abject brother owns,
The youth to learning & to labour trains,
And smooths the cou[deletion]g[/deletion][insertion]c[/insertion]h, where pale disease complains.
E'en-on the cell, where guilt & misery lie,
Streams the sweet ray from misery's gracious eye:
For rank'd in virtues cause her chiefs appear,
Illustrious names, to future ages dear!
Not theirs the bloody pomp of martial meed,
But brighter honours crown the nobler deed
There princely Leopold his sway maintains,
Mild as the breeze, which fans his Tuscan plains:
Though rigorous justice guards the favour'd shore,
He bids the sword of justice [underline]slay[/underline] no more:
He deemd that nature's law no right could have,
To take that life the God of nature gave.
Where the deserted babes protection find,
Their little lives to stranger's hands consigned,
There noble Arabella's worth is tried,
Her sexes glory, & her nations pride:
While generous Raikes bids idle sport give way,
And useful lore defend the solemn day.
And Howard, like a pitying Angel speeds,
From clime to clime, while misery's cause he pleads,
The Dungeons depths, all-resolute explores,
Though putrid steams bedew the iron-doors.
The sable vail see dauntless Clarkson rend,
And bold avows himself the captives friend,
I[insertion]n[/insertion]voking sacred pity's heavenly rain
To wash the blood that rusts upon his chain.
There, Burke, thy loved thy honoured name shall stand,
And add new splendour to the godlike band.
The gracious Father, universal Friend,
To whom the cries of guiltless blood ascend,
He

He to thy charge superiour powers assigned,
And bless'd thee with the love of human kind -
O then continue still, thus doubly blest,
Thy generous aims to succour the distrest:
Let proud oppression from thy voice retire,
While the rapt nations kindle at thy fire,
Let either India echo back thy name,
While conscious virtue yields the dearest fame.
And when thy noble soul shall wing it's flight
To the pure realms of liberty & light,
There where the wicked shall no more molest,
There where the wearied wounded spirits rest,
The[insertion]re[/insertion] where the captives meet their sorrows o'er,
And tremble at the oppressors voice no more,
Amid the holy bands who glorious shine,
For ever hymning forth their songs divine,
The Patriarchs just by early nature blest
With the first sweets of her maternal breast,
The inspired Seers whose heaven-illumined eye,
Futurity's dark regions could descry,
The Apostles, who the sacred mandates bore
Of universal Grace from shore to shore,
And the meek martyrs with their precious blood
Sealing those truths a blinded world withstood.
Amid those holy bands that peaceful fold,
Shalt thou the naked Negro-slave behold,
Whose manly limbs the servile chain confin'd,
And heathen-darkness wrap[deletion]p[/deletion]'d his feather'd mind
The work of God - the spirit & the frame
His tyrant fellow-man depressed with shame.
What though his ear no social lip inform'd,
The heart he made the gracious maker warm'd:
Though small his knowledge yet his guide was true,
He kept that guide & practiced what he knew.

