Ballitore: 6/2 month 1780

				I was duly favoured with thy letter, & am always pleased with hearing from thee - We are much concerned that poor Peggy Christy has been so much indisposed as we have lately heard - Thy renewed anxiety must be great - But we hope soon to hear that it has pleased him, who bringeth down & raiseth up for his own wise ends & purposes, to restore her to health, health which is so valuable, & which so few prize sufficiently till they are proved with the want of it. A line to inform us of her state, & how every individual of you is as soon as convenient will be very acceptable -
	We are (through the kindness of Providence) at present partakers of tolerable health - My wife pretty often ailing, but recruits again - Molly & Sally have been both indisposed, but finely now. My Son's family also tolerably well - the little one hitherto continues to thrive. Poor Cousin Sam Carleton (as it were) stole away from us sooner than we expected - he departed this life, & seemed to have an easy passage to eternity 23d ultimate - He appeared to be quite resigned & full of love, often expressing his hope that his Change would be for the better - I conveyed to him thy Salutation, & make no doubt but the loving, good-natured man charged me with his in return. Jonathan Haughton's family have been amply compensated for their extraordinary care & trouble: but I am obliged to be at the expence. however expect that in course of time I shall be re-imbursed: with which I am quite content. His funeral was attended by James Gough, Mary Ridgway & many friends - his Remains were brought to the Meeting-house, & a good solemn season I think it was - Our loss of a true friend, & pleasing companion is considerable, but really I believe the great Gain is his - which is consolatory to the Survivours.. He mentioned in his Will a Silver-butter-boat as a token to thy Peggy - Please say to what place we shall send it for her.
	I would be glad to hear that thy brother James was getting up the hill - I know not how to spare him from the field of battle - he is but just harnessed for fight, & does he talk of retreating from it? - I hope better things - I wish him & T:G: to be co-adjutors in their several departments - A misunderstanding between general officers very much hurts the cause - I love them both, & you all most heartily - But for my part I own I am afraid to undervalue people of a certain class, even in thought - "Touch not mine anointed & do my prophets no harm" is like a fence which makes me cautious of meddling with them - David was smitten in himself when he cut off the skirt of Saul's Garment - These things were left for our learning - We are not to expect but men will have their foibles as men: but when Infinite Wisdom has been pleased to dignify, it must be by the assistance of a portion of the same Wisdom that we must be led effectually to rectify. I just drop this, as what strikes my mind at times, when inconsistencies & improprieties in some of my superiours appear to me. I write from my own feelings, as to myself, & I think I know to whom I write, one that in every respect wishes to be acceptable in the sight of the great Lord of all - The post-bag waiting, I must conclude. All our dear love attends you all. I am my dear Debby's
					very affectionate Kinsman
							Richard Shackleton.
