Ballitore : 3rd.. of 8th.. mo: 1777
My dear Aunt,
I hope there's no occasion to make
an apology to thee for the liberty I take of writing
a few lines to thee - no; I am certain thou wilt not look
on these with an unfavourable eye therefore shall endeavour
to proceed. I was well pleased to hear of
thy safe arrival at Waterford & Clonmel; & it is my
sincere wish thou may be preserved in a good state of
health, that the pleasures of thy visit may not be embittered
with pain, or if they are (as pleasure & pain are
said to be inseparable) it may be in the smallest degree
possible. I dare say Cousin Peggy's little one has
made a great progress in thy affections, as he is
so much cried up for his charms. 'Tis now more
than three weeks since you left Ballitore. I suppose
the time will soon draw nigh when you will
set your faces homeward. The Retreat looks dismal

enough in your absence & seems to join me in wishes
for your speedy return. My Uncle & Aunt went
a week from last Fourth-day to the Carlow Meeting they stay'd
visiting the Families till First-day when they returned
accompanied by Jonathan Carleton & Sam Haughton
On Fifth-day we were favoured with E. Robinson's company
to Meeting, the following day she, E. Pike, my Uncle
Debby, John Conran & Louisa Strangman went to Athy,
they all returned the same evening, but the Friend & E:
Pike who went from that to Mt Melick, for which place
Cousin Aby set off yesterday. Thou hast heard of Abby
Thompson's recovery I suppose & of her going to Violet
bank which must have been very pleasing - Tom [unclear]Fayle[/unclear]
who was here on Sixth-day informs us that she rides out
every day to take the air. Thou might now from thy
own bed if at home without the help of a Telescope
see what dreadful havock the axe is making among
the beauties of Ballitore, all the Trees between the
Bridge & the Corner of the street are cut down, they have
even laid their sacriligious hands upon the large Elm tree
tree which has so long graced that place, it fell exactly
across the street & form'd a kind of a Wall, it really
made a grand appearance, tho' in ruins. For fear of
tiring thy patience, I must conclude. My dear love is to
you all. Farewell, dear Aunt, & give me leave to stile
my self thy affectionate Nephew
W Rayner.

2 11
Deborah Carleton
Clonmel
Wm Rayner to D.C
Ballitore: 3/8mo. 1777

