London 3rd September 1790


Dear Sir/


        The following advertizement [sic] appeared in the Gazette last Saturday.
Heirs at Law wanted
        The Heir or Heirs at Law of Mr John Shackleton late of Pasture House, near Colne, lately deceased, as well as Mrs. Mary Shackleton, his Widow, deceased, may, by applying to Mr. Bolton, Attorney, in Colne, in the County of Lancaster, with proper proofs of their being so, received information which may tend much to their advantage. Mr John Shackleton, was the only Child of Mr Christopher Shackleton, late of Stone Edge, near Colne aforesaid, Gentleman, deceased, and Mr Christopher Shackleton was the Son of one William Shackleton, who formerly resided in the Neighbourhood of Hallifax.  Mrs. Mary Shackleton was the only Child of Mr. William Cowgill formerly of Fielding Clough, near Earby in the Parish of Thornton, in Craven, in the County of York. 
        By order of Thomas Park Esquire & Mr. William Folds, the Executors and Trustees named in the last Will of the said Mr John Shackleton.
        Colne August 12. 1790 Signed J Bolton


I shall be much obliged to you for your assistance in this business, that if any branch of our Family is entituled [sic] they may not loose [sic] the benefit thereoff [sic]
        
        3 Brothers        Roger                Quere [sic]
                        Jeremiah   }        -  which was the Elder
                        Abraham        -  what was their Fathers Name
                                        -  where did he reside
                                        -  If he had any other Children
                                           if so their Names & place of residence


any Information tending to the Genealogy of the family will give me much pleasure, possibly what you may be at a loss for, you may put me in a method how to attain.
        Mary was brought to bed last Tuesday Week of a dead Child, but I think a finer boy was scarce ever seen, the loss was severely felt, I have great consolation in her having had a fine time & is likely to do well 
        Whenever Business of pleasure calls either You or any part of your Family to London, we have plenty of Beds & our House always at Your service
My Mother, Mr. How, Mr Hague, Mary, Father & Brother join me in Love & respect to You & Family & believe me to be                Dear Sir                Affectionately Yours
                                                                Thomas Shackleton
NB. have the pleasure to say that Mr. Elliot is well
