July 23rd 1822
My Dear Eliza
A year has passed over since our excursion
together through Co. Wicklow, that memorable time
when we threw care away, for three days, to enjoy the
mountains and the vallies; last Thursday twelve months
was the day, we had the morning's walk over the fields
and hedges on the hill opposite Castle Howard. Now I am
writing of morning did you see a song on the pleasures of
morning in the last but one of Campbells Magazine, to the same
time that Moore has written his song of "Fly not yet" to celebrate
evening. I think the song to morning is the finest.
This dreadful wet weather must prevent some of your twilight
walks. My father is terribly fretted about his hay, it likewise
prevents my country excursions, of which he has not taken away as
yet. I received a great deal of pleasure from your acknowledgement
with respect to Sarah, and from hearing that your friendship
is resumed. I hardly heard anything of the excursion to Poula Phouca
indeed I did not know the Ballitore friends, were to [insertion]have[/insertion] been there until,
that Saturday, when [unclear]Parrak[/unclear] was saying it was a pity they did not
go, it was so fine, I suppose the wet weather frightened them.
They must have had a fine fall of water there that day after the
heavy rain. I gave Hannah your message.

27th I seat myself down at the Office desk after coming in with
Manliff from Glendruid, to write a few more lines, after an
intermission of four days. We left Edward & Sarah and Richard
out there so we are all alone by ourselves in this Big
house, to fancy Ghosts and Fetches. You desire me to tell you
something about Glendruid. This morning was wet but is cleared
up after breakfast, (which I took at Aunt Fayles,) I set off
got a car at Stephens Green all the way to Cabinteely. Lucy
and I set off to ride we went through the Scalp and Old Connaught
by Counr Roberts home. We found E&S arrived also Richard
it was a glorious day; after dinner we all went to walk to
Shea's hill by Tullagh and the farm yard we sat a good
while on the hill admiring the smiles of nature on every
thing around. The heath begins to tinge the mountains with
their purple I have a piece of it in my button hole. We came
home; after tea some of us went up to Tillietud to see the sunset
but were disappointed, it being covered by a cloud. E was
fishing when I left the Glen. All the girls and Richard saw
 us past the gander which is generally [unclear]Pims[/unclear] gate, where there
were many farewells spoken and looked before now.
There is a new cottage built where the Old Mill was, which
I am rather sorry for, on account of the effect [deletion]of[/deletion] that old ruin
had from various courses. The cottage is not finished as yet.
Edwards poor old cottage where many a pleasant evening
was spent is now a heap of rubbish. See how it is, everything

which we look on with any degree of interest, falls away
and decays by degrees, and if not filled up by other objects
of regard we are left lonely and sorrowful when we have
most need of them.
Of the Stephens's, I cannot tell you much, Patty and Thomas
are the only ones I saw since Jenny died, they were out a the Glen
one Sunday since; their situation must be uncomfortable and
it is so different from what they were generally used to.
The Moniter's Box seems to have died away (if a box can die)
like every thing else, from want of food to keep it alive Arthur
[unclear]was[/unclear] the last support it had, but now I believe he [unclear]forgets it.[/unclear]
Lucy has pretty well recovered her looks
and health thanks to the country and that
great restorer of health. Is it W Greggors account of the
French Revolution you are reading, what do you think of it
I never read any account of it except by Moore which was a
long time ago. The last Book I regularly read was Sydney's
 aphorisms and remarks on them by [unclear]Miss[/unclear] Porter; they are extracts
from his Arcadia and some of the remarks are excellent.
I have not got through the Fortunes of Nigel yet so I wont say any
thing about them. I expect soon to be in Ballitore for a short
time, either Saturday or Sunday next:
I remain yours
John
PS I send you the journal

Eliza Gough
Ballitore

