My dear Cousin,                                                                                               Ballitore: 16/1 month 1776.
                I do not forget that I am in thy debt, I wished for an opportunity of writing to thee, but one thing or other prevented. To ordinary persons, & on ordinary occasions we may write almost at any time, but we wait for something better to give our dear friends, & as this is not at our own command, & the hurries & cares of life cause us to let slip times & seasons, by these means our best friends sometimes come the worst off with respect to correspondence. I wanted to acquaint thee (which probably thy sister Abby may have given thee a hint of before) with the proposal of an alliance with my family. To save the trouble of Repetition, I leave the inclosed open for thy perusal. Do not let T:G: know that it was left open: please seal it after perusal & forward it to him. I dont find any frank for him. Poor Peggy has been much distrest about this matrimony-affair: it has (like thy own connection of the same kind) been sown in tears: And indeed in divers respect bears a strong Resemblance, in the peculiarity of circumstances that attend it, to thy own situation in like case. And if it should please Infinite Wisdom, who orders the Stars in their courses, to cause this Connection in its progress & consequences still more to resemble thine, we must submit: Righteous, just & true is the great Controler of human events: it is enough for us that each of us is in the place, & moving in the Sphere by him allotted to us. Peggy is (I confess) particularly near & dear to me, rendered so by many a strong tie of natural & spiritual affection. Yet it would be the height of Folly & Self-Love to throw a damp on the proposal because it personally divides us a little further asunder. I would not be guilty of such meanness, nor durst I presume to interfere with my own scheming and contriving about her, lest I should be instrumental to defeat the designs of Unerring Wisdom. As far as this affair has yet proceeded, we are all easy with it, & some of us nearly concerned think we have had cause to hope, from our best feelings, that it is of Good. Sam is a well-looking, honest-countenanced, proven young man about 25 years of age, seems to have had an affection of a long standing for Peggy, & indeed we believe is exceedingly fond of her. He is none of your smart, bright young fellows in conversation, yet seems sensible, modest, humble, & (we believe) religious; for which last Qualification I believe Peggy principally esteems & regards him, at the same time that his remarkable assiduity & officious attention to please seem to gain him ground upon her affections. Peggy has compassion, & thinks it would go hard with him if he should be refused He is in the Worsted-manufacture & Butter-buying business at Clonmel, reckoned to be very clever & expert in dealing & in a prosperous way, solely on his own bottom. Thus, My dear Friend, I familiarly converse with thee on a subject so interesting to my dear wife & me, not doubting but Friendship makes it so to thee likewise.Thy poor sister Abby has been in a great pucker about it, cries & laments that her dear Friend should be so far separated from her. There is much love subsisting between the two girls. My Wife & I & some more were lately paying a visit to Athy meeting. There are but very few there by whom the Society is likely to get much credit, except our Relations family. And indeed I hope Tommy & Abby come forward in their own growth, & in capacity for service there. This is a poor account we hear of William Nevill. I hope your house is not a sufferer in property by him. Sufferers we must all be by such things, who are concerned for the propagation of true Religion & the Reputation of its cause...I believe poor John Gough will have a load of trouble by it. I heartily wish him best support & best wisdom to strengthen & conduct him in the line of true & impartial Judgment; for any thing of the contrary would be of bad consequence, as to his future services there. I note thy intention of sending thy dear little boy hither. I hope when he comes we will do our best for his improvement in every respect, & that his Mother will lay herself out to come to Ballitore along with him. I dont hear but thy Mother & all thy relations in this country are well. They appear to continue to get forward in business at Athy We are generally favoured with tolerable health here, but had a severe bout of it, when the Epidemical Cold was going, numbers of the boys being ill, they are all bravely now. My wife is at times complaining, was very poorly lately, but has got about again. Sister much in the old fashion: this long time confined to the house, but not to her chamber. Molly & Sally pretty hearty, but the former thin in flesh & the impediment in her speech continues, the latter gives us much uneasiness by a Pearl on the sight of one eye. My Debbys face rather better than at some times, but really not well. Peggy would be tolerable, but that her present affair on hands has fined her down. My son has got the Burden of the Business much upon his shoulders, reads hard for his own improvement, yet is healthy & hearty (through mercy), very dutiful, well disposed & agreeable, only that we cannot get him to look out for a wife. A servant of thy old neighbor Ralph Chrilehly happened to come here as I write, he says they are all well there.
        Be sure remember us all dearly to thy Father & Children -- It is exceedingly pleasing to us to hear that thy brother James holds on in the right course, & that thy son is so happily situated with him. With the Salutation of all our cordial love to thee, & good wishes for all thine, I remain.
thy truly affectionate friend
& kinsman
Richard Shackleton
