Glendruid 5th mo 7th 1833
3rd day night.
I am just after reading aloud thy letter
my dear Eliza to my Mother and Arthur it was
very welcome, as we were beginning to get uneasy
at not hearing from thee, we were speaking of it
this morning at breakfast, and saying over many
things as excuses for thy not writing the worst we
thought of, was, that thou wert not well and wert
waiting for a good account to send us, however thy
letter has put us quite at ease on that head.
what a relief it is to get a letter at a particular
time & how very difficult it is to bear suspense,
I know nothing equal to it. I must now just
tell thee how we are, I am writing to thee in
the parlour [underline]solus[/underline] my Mother, Manliff & Arthur
having gone down to the cottage where they are
to sleep tonight we have moved that much down,
we intend living here untill after tomorrow as
we expect the Goughs to spend the day here &
my mother says she would rather entertain them
here than below. I have not moved my things
yet but [deletion]instead[/deletion] intend staying here untill fifth
day Mary & Ann, Nancy & Emmy keeping me company,
thy room I have settled below and thy

goods & chattels all safely lodged, at least all that
were in thy room, nothing in the library is stirred
yet. this is a great moving week. Richard has been
out here both yesterday and to day busy at his
house, they are all to be out tomorrow I believe
bag & baggage, I hope Elizth may not be overdone
she has been disappointed at not having Jane
Stephens, who was so ill with the influenza that
they had to bring her home on seventh day evening,
I did not hear how she was since. Jos & Sally Jacob
drank tea with us this evening, Sally's cold is not
quite gone yet, they just came as Richard was leaving
this to go to town. Frank has got the same
teazing pain between his eyes that he had, after
the other cold, I believe he went to Dr Henry about
it. We are [underline]well[/underline] here, except Arthur who seems to
have got a little of the cold but he is better and is
up & out as usual, my mother says it was it she
had in the winter and therefore she does not expect
to get it again, and as for myself, I will very readily
excuse it coming to me. I suppose thou wilt
have heard before thou receives this that F W is gone
home with R & L at least so Jos Jacob told us this
evening, I am sure when I saw him on first
day I did not think he would be able to go so soon
altho' he seemed much better that day than the

day before, I suppose thou wilt see him, poor fellow
I hope the country air will do him good, for he did
not seem stout this long time, he complained of
a great pain in his side, I think the confinement
did not agree with him. In my last I
told thee that I expected my Mother in town on
first day, well she did come & brought in little
Richard who is to stay in untill after the moving
but left Emmy out neither Manliff nor Arthur came
in. my Mother F & L and I paid a visit to my Aunt
Manliff who has been ill of the influenza she was
in [insertion]bed[/insertion] for two or three days but is now up and
much better. We all dined at Britain St.
viz my Mother, R & ERB, John & Martha, Frank
& Lucy, Frederic & I, besides there were G Bewley
& his son, RIL & Saml. Eves, who I must tell thee I do
not by any means admire, & R D W, a goodly company
thou wilt say, indeed we were a fine table full
and seemed all very pleasant, thou knows without my
telling thee how agreeable Edward can be when he
chooses and what an effect he has in general on his
company. my Mother nor I did not go to second
meeting, but Sarah gave us our tea early and we came
home to the Glen, which looks almost in its prime,
my Mother being anxious to see how Arthur was, he
not being quite himself when she left him in the
morning, we found him finely - the Glen looks
lovely, I think it never looked handsomer than now

the blue-bells, primroses, violets wild pink, & ground
ivy and wood sorrel, are all in full bloom, there is
no season like spring, none can be compared to it
at least in my eyes, the birds too are singing with
all their heart's, the cuckoo has been here now nearly
two weeks and the corn crake I heard for the first
time last night while I was sitting on the steps,
It is almost time for me to stop as it is now growing
late, I have however got to near the end of my sheet
perhaps thou may receive it per some body returning
from the meeting, I may send it in to town by first
opportunity, I am glad thou art regaining thy weight
but why dost thou not pattern after me and grow

as fat and look as vulgarly well as I did, there have
been many enquiries for thee repeatedly, I met Saml Gamble
in the street the other day he was one of the enquirers, he was
feeling what kind of a day it was whether or not it would
do for Emma to go out I believe I have now spent myself except
a portion of love I may say from all for I am sure it is
in keeping for thee though not expressed by my mother, &
the boys, also a large share from thy affectionate
sister Selina
I expect soon another letter to make up for the long fast
the Fennells are to be out next week.

Eliza Barrington
Ballitore

