My dear Cousin,
Ballitore 2/12 month 1782.

	I know thy Kindness will want to be informed how we got along  & I have not had convenient leisure to write to thee. We reached Ardee in the evening of the day that we parted our kind friends in Newry, having dined in Dundalk - We got pretty good accommodation in Ardee, breakfasted there next morning, & intended to have dined in Navan: but the place was so crowded, it being market-day, that we proceeded to Trim, & dined there. From thence we pushed for Ballybrittan, whither at last we concluded to go, & arrived safe there, about 7 oclock that evening, having travelled (I suppose) upwards of 40 miles that short day. I left that place & my companions next morning before day (12th) & breakfasted at thy brother Watsons, where I met with Ruth Follows & Anne Byrd just setting off for Mountmelick. Jane Watson was also just returned from Waterford  I took Meeting at Rathangan, dinner at Kildare, & Tea at home same day, where (through the kindness of Providence) I found my family & friends as well as usual  Robert Grubb who came by Dublin, was here a day before me  his wife & Peggy had not left Ballitore  they were to have gone next morning, but the rain prevented  So on 14th Molly & I set out with them for Killconner-side, & were at that Meeting next day. In the afternoon of same day had a religious opportunity at Ballydarton. Our Clonmel-friends intended to have proceeded homeward 16th; but it proving a very wet day, & their mode of travelling being on horseback, they staid with us on that side till 17th, when they left us. I have not since heard of them. Molly & I (each riding single) went with our County Carlow Friends to our Meetings of discipline in Carlow 18th, where we met with thy sister Abby & T: Chandlee  all well at Athy  got well home that evening  Sally Watson was in Waterford with her sister Molly, who is near lying-in. Dinah Watsons Reckoning was out too. Betsy Lecky is also near increasing her family. Our Lydia brave & round about. Mary Brooke (we hear) died 10th ultimate.
	I have not since heard how Waterford-friends received our Recommendation, & the terms of Pacification  We took a good deal of pains both mental & bodily -- on reviewing the whole of our transaction, all circumstances considered, I know not how we could have done better  We endeavoured to do no hurt, nor give just cause of offence to any: Shall be pleased to hear of any good effects, though have no apprehension of any mighty works being done. This day is their Province meeting at Cork: I suppose Robert Valentine & John Conran are at it. I am not certain whether John Hall be there, as he talked of sailing from thence to Workinton  I know not but Ruth & her Companion may be at Clonmel. I have not yet heard of our friends Samuel Neal & Edward Hatton having reached home, but believe they have got safer I suppose they went by Mountrath. I think its great mercy shewn to the Church that such valuable instruments are yet preserved to it: & as the Root & Supply of all Sufficiency remains, & remains willing to do his humble, depending children & people good, I see no reason why an utter despondency should prevail with any. The conflicts & exercises to be met with are great without doubt; but they will be only for a season. The Spirit of man wastes its own strength, & must in the end be overcome of that Spirit which suffers no diminution, nor decay. Whether it be a text of Scripture preserved down to us on record or not, it is however a faithful & true saying, the lamb & his Followers shall have the victory.
I will hope, my dear Cousin, to have the pleasure of hearing from thee soon  Let me know how poor dear James Moreton is, & Johny Christys son. Give my dear love to all & every of thy family, root & branch. When thou hast opportunity remember me with near affection to all our friends & relations in Lurgan, to James Morton, his Grandson & spouse, to thy brother & sister Sinton, thy brother Johny & Sally, dear Molly Phelps, Aby Atkinson, &c., &c. My wife (who is in tolerable health) & children join in affectionate remembrance of you all as acquainted  I send herewith a Copy of the Verses which thy father was speaking of. I know not whether either of the girls will write to dear cousin Peggy by this conveyance. I have announced the intended departure of the Convoy. I think it was Ruth who gave me the inclosed to forward to thee. I should make an apology for delaying it so long: but A Good thing is neer out of season: it will I hope make some amends to thee for the barrenness of this poor letter, which however comes from
thy truly affectionate friend & Kinsman
	Richard Shackleton

P.S. I have just got a Letter of the first magnitude from dear Esther Tuke  have not had time to read it yet.



