The Europeans account of the Indian
The composure with which the old man met his dissolution
would have done honour to [deletion]a[/deletion] [insertion]the[/insertion] firmest philosopher of
antiquity. When he found himself near his end, he
called me to him to deliver some final instructions
respecting my carriage to his countrymen; he observed, at
the close of his discourse, that I retained so much of the
European as he shed some tears while he delivered it.
In these tears, said he there is no wisdom for there
"is no use; I have heard that in your country men prepare
"for death, by thinking on it while the live; this also
is folly, because it loses the good by anticipating the
"evill, we do otherwise my Son, as our fathers have
"better instructed us & take from the evill by reflecting
in the good. I have lived a thousand moons, without
"captivity and without disgrace; in my youth I did
"not fly in battle; and in age, the tribes listened while
"I spoke. if I live in another land after death
"shall remember these things with pleasure; if [unclear]th[/unclear]
"present is our only life to have done there is to[unclear]la[/unclear]
"used it well. You have sometimes told me of your
"countrymen's account of a land of Souls; but you were
"a young man when you came among us and the cunning
"among them may have deceived you for the children
"of the French King call themselves after the same
"God that the English do; yet their discourses concerning
"him cannot be true. Each says, that God shall
burn the others with fire; which could not happen if
"both were his children. Besides neither of them act
"as the sons of Truth, but as the Sons of deceit; they
"say their God heareth all things yet do they break
"the promises which they have called upon him to
"hear. but we knew that the spent within us
"listeneth, and that we have said in its hearing, that
"we do. If in another country the Soul liveth this
"witness shall have with it; whom it hath here be foresaken
"it shall there disquiet; whom it hath honoured it shall
there

there remand. Live therefore my Son as your father
hath lived, and die as he dieth fearless of death."
With such sentiments the Old man resigned his
breath and I blushed for the life of Christians
while I heard them
Mary Leadbeater
Ballitore

