Ballitore: 9/3 month 1783
My dear Cousin Debbys kind favour of 15th ultimate came to hand. Thine & thy Peggys earnest desire to have some of our Mollys company is very acceptable [word crossed out]. We like well to have as frequent personal intercourse with you as circumstances will permit: & to demonstrate by actions what we profess in words, we purpose if all be well, & no unforeseen impediment arise, that Molly shall accept your friendly invitation, & spend a few weeks of the ensuing summer with you. But as she would like to lose as little of thy company as possible, she would choose to go with thee & Cousin Abby. Then she hopes to enjoy Cousin Peggy & all of you together, at your sweet, neat, elegant, comfortable, convenient, hospitable dwelling.
I received thy last when in Dublin, to which city I went at the instigation of our friends Robert Valentine & Samuel Neale: no pleasing expedition to me -- but I thought that in religious good manners such an act of complaisance was due to our Countryman the worthy veteran, who had come so far, at such a time, [torn page] visit us. He had had it on his mind to hold a Meeting of Conference with friends of Dublin: so went thither from our Quarterly Meeting of Mountmelick by way of Ballitore & Baltiboys. Elizabeth Pike & some other friends accompanied. Also Robert Grubb & his wife & their brother John were at Mountmelick, & went by Ballitore to Dublin: Cousin Robert & his amiable, valuable consort intending for England along with Robert Valentine. RV & Cousin Sally were in my apprehension divers times well concerned either in publick Meetings, or private opportunities in the exercise of their respective gifts -- & our Quarterly meeting was to good satisfaction. (Next Province-meeting to be at Edenderry 29th instant.) In the publick Meetings at Dublin RV had also good service, & held his Meeting of Conference at the close of the forenoon-Meeting on First-day 23d ultimate. (On that day, 4 years before, I had attended a good Meeting in same place at my sons Marriage.) Roberts chief concern at that conference was to stir up Friends to a more general attendance of Meetings of discipline, in which he was followed by honest Joseph Williams, a lively, sensible, growing man. They were the only speakers. For my part; though my heart joined with them, my tongue had not liberty to even say Amen. I left town next day in company with Cousin John Grubb. I understand the two Roberts & Sally sailed 27th ultimate for Workington with a fair wind: but have not yet heard of their getting over. I understand John Pemberton had reached Dover from Dunkirk; so apprehend that he & his companion William Matthews are engaged in their service in England. By a letter from Peggy Grubb I find Ruth Follows & Anne Byrd had come to Clonmel from Waterford 26th ultimate, & I suppose they may be at Clonmel still, as Peggy said something about their visiting families -- Peggys family was pretty well -- At my return home from Dublin, I found my wife had been ill for several days preceding, confined pretty much to her bed & bed-chamber. Her disorder seemed to be a feverish cold. She has grown so much better as to come down for a few days past to the parlour, & I hope is on the mending-hand; but still but weakly, & not at all fit to go out. Our Lydia is also a good deal in the complaining order, occasioned by her present situation, having now not not many days to reckon before she expects (in the English Phraseology) Confinement with Increase. The rest of both families I think favoured with tolerable health. Molly had a bad cold, but seems [torn page] have shaken it off. I suppose John Conran & Louisa are about laying their intentions of Marriage before Friends. I know not but it may be on this day -- Louisa was also in Dublin with us. She went I believe in friendship to Sally Grubb (Robert) on her leaving us. Samuel Haughtons match is likely to go forward. Thou asks how poor Ephraim Boake goes on -- he gets but indifferent health -- when able comes himself & brings his family pretty diligently to Meetings -- I know nothing new respecting him -- I hear from A:Balfour of Waterford that the dispute between their meeting & Charlemount about John Webb is buried, never to rise again. -- he speaks exceedingly well of John Webb, & the spirit which he appears to be in as to his adversary. This is very pleasing -- all thy little intelligences, my dear Cousin, are very acceptable, though I do not repeat them -- Continue to favour me with a line when convenient to thee. I suppose James Morton got my last ^of 10th ultimate^ -- We all join in dear love to thee, thy father & children -- to any in thy neighbourhood to whom thou knows it would be acceptable, to our dear friends Lurgan & Moy -- I am, my dear friend,
	very affectionately thine Richard Shakleton

P.S.I have no Frank directed to thee. Thy brother
& sister Watson & their sister Jane are here now,
intend to to Athy after meeting

[page 3]
as cousin Richard had no frank he gave me his letter open with liberty to add to it what I thought proper, (in his own words) that it might be the better worth paying for, we left home seventh day morning, sister Jane, sam, & I, to pay a visit to our friends got to Balitore [sic] again dinner time, where we staid till afternoon yesterday, when sam and I came here, and this forenoon, cousin Aby & Molly Shackleton escorted sister Jane here, they left cousin ES much better than she was last week, my poor mother seems fine and harty [sic] sister Aby has a cold in her head but is not confined, Tommy and Deby both unwell with colds, we left the children at home well, propose taking hannah home with us tomorrow, its a long time since we were favoured with a line from thee which has given me some uneasiness we were agreeably surprized [sic] by John Conran the morning [seal] left home on his way to Mountmelick, he gave us some hopes of seeing thee here before Dublin meeting, I supposed at his wedding, but would be glad to hear more particularly from thyself, I can hardly tell what I am writing, mother asks so many questions, she joins with sister, Sam, and I in dear love to thee, cousin Peggy William and the lads, and remain thy sincerely affectionate
Johannah Watson

