

			R. S. to Lydia S.
				Waterford 17th of Seventhmonth
								1779
	My Dear Lydia,
		When I had written one side of a letter this morning, herewith sent to thy husband, I received an affecting epistle from him, dated as yesterday. His lines (for I know his honest heart) are the genuine effusions of a mind then immediately impressed with a lively, tendering sense of multiplied heavenly and earthly favours. May it be your care renewedly to seek after the arising of the virtue and power of truth in your minds, which will enable you often to put up such offerings--offerings grateful both to God and man! I accept, with joy this incense of gratitude offered to me; and I pray God to cherish in the hearts of you  both, those humble, sweet, and grateful sensations which are of his own kindling, and find acceptance with him. My beloved children! your station allotted you in life is arduous & complicated, and ye cannot fill it up, with propriety, without Divine Wisdom. Make it therefore, (as young Solomon did,) your first choice, that ye may go in and out (i.e.) in the modern phrase, behave) [sic] wisely before your numerous family, and the necessarily consequent numerous connexions and appendages of it. The friendship which the world professes is, generally, capricious and insincere: their favour is deceitful, & their applause uncertain; but, by commending ourselves to the consciences of all men in our dealings with them, and, in the way of our occupation, doing service to God rather than to man, we shall be upheld over & above the fluctuating tempers of men--over their insidious smiles, as well as their over-bearing frowns. So help you God, in his mercy, prays your truly affectionate father, who has tasted of good & evil, and has had some experience in the ways and manners of men, and who, upon the whole of his observation and his feelings, bears this testimony to you, the objects of his dear, parental affection, that to walk humbly in the fear of the Lord; to act in all respects consistently with his law, written in our consciences; and to be diligent in cultivating seasons of renewed acquaintance with him by inward retirement, are our combined duty and interest.
	With great propriety and delicacy thy husband also makes me acquainted with the pleasing prospect of the continuation of our name on the earth; a name not rendered (that I know of) illustrious among men by wealth, worldly honours and titles conferred on the possessors of it; but which has been made respectable by several of our ancestors, who in their measure, walked with God; and God took them, and gave them a name among his saints in light. ***
For the first time I subscribe myself, with great pleasure,
		My dear Lydia’s affectionate father
					R. S. 


