Lisburn April 8th 1810
I am much obliged to thee, my dear friend, for
thy kindness in writing to me. I have succeeded in selling
gloves in Belfast to the amount of £1.10s6d, & I intend sending
some to Lurgan this week. I have also sent some to
Dungannon. I hope to have more sold before we go to
Ballitore. We have so far fixed our journey that we think
of leaving home about the 14th of next month, & will
most probably reach Ballitore in about six or eight days
afterwards. My father's business will detain us longer in
Dublin than I would wish, but this dull prosing thing
called business must be attended to. The excellent
paper on the bedding of the poor, & the Fragment by
Miss Piecrust will be inserted in the next magazine,
the latter is a little altered, which I hope the writer
will not disapprove of. We wish to insert two pieces of
poetry, one "on the Muse," the other a "Sonnet to Hope".
Pray who wrote the latter? We intend sending some of
the other papers to the Magazine, but we thought it
was best not to insert them all in one Magazine.
I understand Miss Balfour's poems will be published
this week. please ask Betsy Shackleton if six copies was the

number she wished sent to Ballitore, and six to Samuel
Haughton. I shall be obliged to thee for the lines
thou wrote on Ben Haughton's death. I can never think
of poor Ben without regretting the loss his friends have
sustained by his death. He possessed one of the most
affectionate and generous hearts I ever met with. The
poem on Melesina will be inserted in the magazine.
Abraham Shackleton in a letter to my Father lately
mentioned that Lydia White wished for a housekeeper.
R Uprichard mentioned two persons with whom I am
entirely unacquainted, of course I could not recommend
either of them, but if Lydia should want a housekeeper
I would be very glad she would write to M Pike for a
character of Susanna Greer as there is a very large
family [insertion]rather in distressed circumstances[/insertion] and it is a very great object with their friends
to have the girls settled in places where they would be
enabled to maintain themselves.
I have not read E. Montague's letters. I am
not much prepossessed in favor of them, from the accounts
I have read of them in the Reviews. I am not convinced
of the necessity of publishing every letter after the decease
of the writer that happens to possess a little sense or
a little wit, and I think it is hardly justice to publish

the letter of any young lady or gentleman either thou
may say, for they have not an exclusive patent for
sense - A person in the confidence of friendship may
express their sentiments on any subject [deletion]with[/deletion] which
occurs to them unreservedly, yet I think however well
the letter may be written, it is a kind of injustice
to a friend who is dead to publish that letter. The
case was very different with Anne Grant; she published
her own letters, and had an opportunity of suppressing
any she pleased; of correcting or improving the style
for surely it requires a more mathematical head than
many possess to ponder on every word they write
or to examine with precision if a sentence is
strictly grammatical.
I have read M. Edgeworth's Leonora & Belinda.
The former I should suppose was a very good comparison
between French & English manners, but I am not
willing to suppose that human nature can be so
very depraved as the French lady (I think her name
was Olivia) is represented to be - I liked Belinda less than
any of M Edgeworth's writings; some parts was very excellent,
but I did not quite admire the character of

Lady Delacour; her feelings are quite unnatural in many
instances; and I disliked the idea of a female duel. I
do not admire females degrading themselves by assuming
a masculine manner or conduct. Has thee read the
Modern Griselda? I thought it was very excellent; she
certainly did not possess the most patient [insertion]temper [/insertion]in the world.
I intend when I go to Ballitore to shew thee a poem
written by Rushton on poor Armstrong who was living
in this town in 1798; I think I mentioned in a former
letter his noble answer to the persons who wished him
to inform on his companions. J.B. Trotter has also mentioned
him in stories for columniators; he is there called Palmer.
Who wrote the poem on the Rose in the Ballitore magazine?
I hope to hear from Betsy Shackleton soon; with dear love to her
Mary &c. I am thy very affectionate S. Hancock
Mary Leadbeader
Ballitore
I have a French "Hymn to the Creator" & a translation in English which I
was told was written by thy father. Would thou have any objection to the
insertion in the Magazine? If though [unclear]would[/unclear] not I would thank thee
for a copy of the French, lest the copy I have might not be correct.

