Bray 18 April 1817-
My dear Madam
It will be only with existence that I shall loose recollection
of the numerous acts of kindness I have experienced from
your father. He was my inestimable preceptor. He was my
indulgent friend. I acknowledge my debt of gratitude and
will be ever most happy in any opportunity of evincing it,
and how highly I revere and respect his memory.
In the object your friend W. Fitzsimons has in view
I can be of little service. I can only point out the general
mode of obtaining the Office, which is by application to the
Lord Lieutenant. It requires no great weight of interest - and
I understand there are but few on the list for the Office at present.
I never had the appointment of a Hearth Collector, and never
did appoint one. The office I held imposed it as a duty on me
to recommend and serve meritorious officers, but that has ceased,
Eight years ago I retired from office on my salary and since -
have had no connexion, nor concern in the department. I wish
sincerely that it was in my power to serve your friends
I was much gratified by your son in laws calling on me
here twice or thrice - he was good in giving an old fellow so much
of his company - he is indeed a fine - natural - lively young man
and I trust will be a worthy representative - of the virtuous -
respected and good stock he is of. - My old and dear friend
Aby - called twice to see me. Feeling not to have been forgotten
by old & valued friends is a cheering consolation in affliction -
my son John, who was much with my young friend when in those parts

has not conducted himself to my satisfaction - and within the
Last fortnight I have had an account of the death of my second
son, William, in Barbados - a most amiable and highly gifted
young man, had arrived at nearly the head of his profession, a
Physicion to the Kings Forces - beloved by every one who knew
him - and rapidly putting together a considerable fortune -
difficult as it is - I must and do submit to the divine will.-
I feel much grief - indeed I do - for the melancholy visitation
upon my dear little inocent friend Sally - if inocence and
a heavenly disposition could avert calamity she should
not have so suffered - may it be the last stroke - to pain you,
may you and yours enjoy every comfort of this life and
eternal happiness in the world to come - is the fervent
prayer of
your faithful friend
Thom: Wray

