Dublin April 12 th 1828
My dear Elizabeth
I had no sooner left Ballitore
than I began to think of many things which
I had omitted to do in the way they ought to
have been done, or else [insertion] had [/insertion] any other altogether. I
want to make up a little book in which the
names of the folk about the Inn concerns who
occupy any part thereof shall be entered, together
with the rate at which they hold the Same and
the time at which the commenced Rent.
for the last particular you could assist me
much by making a memorandum at
your perfect leisure, of the time upto which
you as Executrix recd the last rent from
any of the parties either in the shape of money
[unclear][/unclear] that of work done. And though I recd
rent from the coach Coy still I took
no note of the time upto which they paid.
thee you have the goodness to tell Tho's Glaybrook
that we wish to reserve the power of giving a
small garden such as I described to him, to the
house and forge which Jess Murphy occupied.
It can I think be done without any inconvenience
as those fences or garden wall can easily be raised
so on prevent any tresspass. the are not dispared
to waive this rendition, which if he is satisfied
with, you may defer Murphy to give him the
key of the gate and let him take possession; the rent
to commence 25th March but at 4£ per Acre.
At all events Murphy env ment he takes away
had promised positively to pay the grazing [insertion]money[/insertion] on the 12th Inst-

John Doyle knows the time he put his cow
in and the rate at which he is to pay is
7s per Month or about 1s/ 7 1/2 per Week. I hope
you will be able to get Ned Forbes to take
the hay and Oats off our hands at Derrygarran.
R S L has been here since yesterday and
seems quite satisfied with the proposed method
of settling the Earl St concerns
told me he would pay you his rent at the
old rate upto the 25th March when he commences
rent under his new agreement.
Edw McEvoy
on this day
believe me yours
affectionately EB
I delayed this, thinking to send it by R S L, but he has altered his
mind and goes strait to Stradbally. If you should see McEvoy
will you tell him that I had the piece of timber ready but
that his Uncle never called for it, otherwise thats to give
me the length thereof. yours ever more
EB
14th April
charge this postage
to my acct
Elizabeth Leadbeater
5
Ballitore

