	From the same to the same.
		
					Ballitore 27th of Seventhmonth 1778
		*** Our loss, to be sure, is great, in thy beloved Aunt Deborah Carleton, as she was both a sensible & sincere woman. She was watchful over our interests, and over the interest & welfare of our children, with an anxious, tender, affectionate solicitude; and as she had long experience of the world, was very capable of advising respecting it. 
	The children, as might be thought, mourned, and will mourn the removal of so near and dear a friend, relation, guardian, assistant, and companion; but the dispensation will, I trust, be of benefit to their spirits, and in time will wear off the keen edge of grief. She died the 22nd and we interred her remains yesterday, after the rise of the forenoon meeting. It was concluded best not to bring them to the meeting. The dead was not there; but through infinite kindness, the living who attended were favoured with the baptizing power and presence of the Lord. Our dear friend James Gough came from Dublin on the occasion, and had a good time in testimony at the meeting: in testimony again and supplication, with renewed evidence of good, at the grave. The exemplary life and good qualities of the Deceased were spoken to, in allusion to Cornelius the Centurion: ‘Thy prayers is heard, and thine alms are had in remembrance ‘in the sight of God.’ And it is the crown of our comfort, that not only her passage out of this life was made so easy, that at the last she seemed only to cease to breathe; but at the solemnity of her interment, there was felt so strong and well-grounded a hope of her translation from a painful body to a place of rest and happiness, which hope was borne testimony to, I think, in a good degree of the life & authority of truth. Our invaluable, steady, sincere friend, Elizabeth Pike, who is so hard to be prevailed on to pay visits, or stay unnecessarily from home, has continued with us every since, and does not purpose to leave us till to-morrow. I think I never knew such another, (man or woman,) for firm, steady friendship: her company is of great use, and a consolation to thy mother. She came with intention to administer comfort to my dear sister; but that comfort was reserved for her survivors. *** I doubt not the kindness of thy friends and relations in visiting thee in thy trouble. Give all our dear love to them all. I love them that love thee. May kind Providence bless and protect thy little ones, saith
				thy truly affectionate father
							R. S.
