York 25th of 10th month 1791

My dear Friend!
	
	Many Times have I thought of, and wished to salute thee after this Sort, particularly since the solemn Close of my dear Aunt; believing some account of her Situation after thou left Manchester, would have been acceptable to thee, and which I often seemed to feel was justly thy Due; but so many Engagements have fallen to my Lot, as scarcely to leave room for this Employ previous ot my entering into the present Cause of my being here, which was to join in a religious visit to two monthly Meetings in this County; which ^is^ now being gone thro. My beloved Friend C Hustler ^is^ now with me, and as we are going towards Hull in the morning, & dear Anne Tuke not likely to be here when we return, I am employing her sister Mabel to convey, tho late, this Information.
	I think my dear Aunt did not alter much till about a Week before her final Change, & the vital Part to the last wonderfully strong. I left her on second Day afternoon preceding to attend our Monthly Meeting, she appearing free I should go, & I had a firm Belief she would not be removed before I returned, though I found her Breath began to have a putrid affection, & her arms almost black. She told me at parting to give her love to Friends & tell them she did not expect to see many, if any of them, again, but her love was as great as ever it had been. I got back on 3rd Day & when riding into ^the^ Town, had as clear a Sense as if it had been told me, that I should not go out again till her Spirit was disrobed of the afflicted Tabernacle. She was just got to Bed when I returned, & did not rise so as to have her Cloaths on again, but was frequently dosing [sic] & therein mentioning Passages of Scripture, with many other Remarks, which, tho not quite clear, we could tell what she meant. On 6th Day morning I thought her Eyes looked much altered, & she did not seem to know us one from another. In the afternoon I asked her if she could see me, & tell by looking at me who I was; she turned her Face towards me, and after some time trial said; nay, its so cloudy & dusky I cannot see. I then asked her if she knew my voice, to which she said very quickly, yes what Im like to know that!She did not complain of any pain that Day, or incline to take any thing, yet her voice was strong, and about 9 oClock dropt the last Expression in these Words. Be still, be still & thou shall [sic] soon see the 
Salvation of God. This carried such an Evidence with it, that I believed the Time of her departure was near at hand. And about ? past 10, she quietly breathed her last without the least apparent Struggle. For which my Soul was indeed made thankful to that holy Being, who saw meet to release her from all sorrow, & center in that where it is no more known.The meeting for the interment began on 1st Day was a large & solemn Time. May all Praise be given where it is due.
	I might add a little if Time would admit, but that not being the Case, hope thou will accept the Will for the Deed, with the united Love of my present dear companion CH to thyself, valued Spouse, and the rest of thy Household, whom thou may salute by name and any other Friend in thy freedom; which conclude me thy truly affectionate Friend,
	Martha Routh



