Ballitore: 30/6 month

My dear cousin,

	I returned home 20th instant from my excursion to England, & found all (to appearance) well, through the kindness of my merciful Benefactor. I might perhaps except our little Peggy, who seemed in a declining way, when I left home -- however she appeared better on my return, & is since sent to County Wicklow to bathe in the sea, pursuant to advice of physicians. The fleet of us bound to Yearly meeting went different ways -- my son-in-law wanted to remain as long as he could with his numerous family & business -- so I went hence to Waterford to accompany him over, it being his first time of crossing the channel. I had the company of Hannah Davis & Suky Jacob to that city from this place. I staid several days in Waterford before S:G: joined me -- We set sail from Cheek-point & arrived at Milford-haven after 36 hours passage -- A vessel came in from the same port 2 or 3 hours after us, which had been but about 13 hours at sea. We landed early in the morning, & went to Haverfordwest in S. Wales, where we found John Lewis, an aged publick friend, was deceased, & to be interred in a day or two after our arrival. They invited us to the funeral, & we thought best to attend it -- they provided us with horses to ride, & treated us with great civility -- the burying-place was about fourteen miles off, & some of the road exceeding bad. From the burying-place we soon got into the road of carriages, & made for Bristol, where Sam had some business to transact. He soon dispatched that to his satisfaction, & I visited some of my friends. Poor Molly Hiltons only surviving child seemed in a declining way, & she (to be sure) anxious about it -- I hear since that the child is better. We staid but a few hours in Bristol; then went to Bath, where we met with Joseph Rathbone & his wife quartered at our inn -- they were not bound for London -- but a young (single) woman, Molly Gellet (a relation of Anstis Sparkes) the only representative male or female from Devonshire, providentially came to us, being in quest of suitable company to trust herself with in the night-coach. She had paid all, or most of her fare for another coach, in which she was not easy to go on account of the company -- but on application her money was refunded to her, & she gladly set off with us about ten oclock at night, & we were favoured to get safe to London early in the afternoon of the next day. Thy neighbours could inform thee that the meeting was large & held unusually long -- they could also inform of any particular transaction. For my part, I think it was a solemn season, & hope the great master of our assemblies was pleased in a good degree to preside among us. Thomas Phelps could inform thee how we travelled together till we parted at Shrewsbury, on our return. Robert Clibborn, Sam Grubb & I proceeded to Liverpool. While the young men staid there one day, I took a trip to the Monthly Meeting at Warrington, & had the great satisfaction of seeing there Sarah Taylor, John Thorp, & divers other dear friends. We set sail next morning early from Liverpool with a fair wind, but after a while we were becalmed, & the wind shifted -- so that we were 60 hours on the water -- but as I was not sick, it was the more tolerable. Arriving in Dublin SG & I staid one night there, & having taken up Sally Watson (who waited there for us) proceeded hither, where Sam made but a few hours stay, & went on, reaching home & their monthly meeting the day following, & (through the kindness of Providence) I believe finding his family & affairs in good condition.* I found at my house our dear friends Sarah Crawley & Mercy Ransom. I was with them at this meeting, Athy, Castledermot & Carlow, to my satisfaction -- they seemed to me to have acceptable service, & to be blessed along every way. They were pretty well at Athy -- At Carlow poor cousin Jonathan & Phebe Carleton were in a melancholy way -- a mortification seemed to have taken place in his foot -- in divers respects they seemed to have been affected pretty much alike -- each appeared drawing near the close, & as it were at equal distances from the goal. The Women-friends had a comfortable opportunity with Jonathan in the parlour. Phebe who was in bed seemed hardly capable of it. I trust the merciful hand of gracious Providence will lead them both safely through the strait & gloomy passage to a place of endless Rest. This I doubt not was the happy experience of dear cousin Abby, thy honest, sincere, well-minded, affectionate sister, our very particular, faithful friend -- What a happy circumstance it was, that thou seemed as it were led by the hand to take a final farewell of her! how wonderfully things are ordered, & way made for those who cast their care on the everlasting husband, Father & Friend, who continues to care for his little ones, & having loved his own will love them to the end! The sudden removal of this old acquaintance, relative & family-friend is nearly felt by some of us, & the cordiality of her attachment will be long remembered -- if long can be properly applied to our short & uncertain state of existence. Our Sally went yesterday morning for Clonmel -- it seemed not pleasant to part with her, her company is so pleasing, & her example so profitable. But its not good to be too selfish -- we were not sent into life, to live only to & for ourselves -- We will want to hear from thee, my dear cousin Debby -- how thou gets thy health -- how thou feels under this fresh trial of privation -- how James & his wife & children are now -- & how Peggy Pike is -- Is Aby Atkinson stouter in health? We also want to know how thy brother & sister are at Lurgan, not having had the pleasure of seeing either of them in Dublin. Thy brothers company there at our solemnities can (in my opinion) be very badly spared. I know I missed him greatly -- When in London I called to see Lucys sister Smith -- they were well as usual I think. Remember us all affectionately to thy father. I wish him best comfort now in the decline of a well-spent life, & that as his days so may his strength be. Our dear love attends you all, old & young, there & elsewhere. Our kind greetings to dear Molly Phelps & her brother Thomas. And now, my dear friend & cousin, farewell. Many have been thy strippings many ways, & close thy trials -- May thou happily be favoured to feel inward support under the reflection of the past, & the pressure of those which may be yet to come [paper torn] so thou may be enabled to rejoice in tribulation, & bless that hand, which [paper torn] things well! Thy faithful, affectionate
	Richard Shackleton.

* Robert Grubb & his wife & their suite arrived in Clonmel same day, having come by Milford & Waterford.
