What does my dear Miss Shackleton think of me?
not see me at Mountrath - no ansr. to your Letter of so long
a date as 12th March - a bad appearance of propriety,
after my request - but then I know you are too good
to think unfavourably of me, therefore rest easy as to that
- I must indeed be divested of all the ties of friendship,
when I neglect, or behave with ingratitude to any one of
your family; for to them I am indebted for every thing
that makes this Life agreeable to me - I can only thank
them, for their regards, and ever will retain a grateful
sense of it.
About a Week after I had the pleasure of
seeing you in Mt. Melick, I was obliged to go to the Cy.
Cavan on some business of my brother Harpers, and did
not return from thence till 8th Inst. which day I recd.
your affectionate letter, and indeed I could not get a
greater treat than the beautiful verses inclosed, together
with the profiles, which my Sister thinks a better likeness
than the former - for all which accept my affectionate -
thanks - But then you tell me your Mother was
unwell after her return from Mt. Melick, & you also, and
confined to your room [deletion]for[/deletion] for a Week, that your Sister
Chandlee

Chandlee lost her fine boy - that Mansergh lost his Mother,
& that he could not make this his way, as he was to be at
Cashell on a fixed day - terrible News - I am exceedingly
sorry to hear it - I hope you and your Mother's indisposition
did not continue any time - it would make me very 
uneasy if I thought it did, I assure you - I felt greatly for
your Sister Chandlee - so fine a boy, and her Darling - I
expect she has got the better of her trouble, and that it wont
have any effect on her Spirits - Mansergh's not coming
was no loss to me, as I happened to be from home at that
time, but my Sister expected him notwithstanding -
I expect I have that pleasure still before me - you'll
be pleased when I tell you that Chal. Rawdon is very well,
I had the pleasure of hearing from him when I was in
Coothill, and was on the brink of going to Glasslough
to see him, when an accident happened, which prevented
me - I am much obliged to you for your good
wishes for my health &c. I am some days well, some
days Ill, but in general I think I get better health
than I did - I propose to myself the happiness of
seeing your family in Dublin in May - Pray give
my love to your father & mother, young Mr. & Mrs.
Shackleton, Mrs. Chandlee, Miss Miller & the Miss
Haughtons, and am -
ever yours most truly
Wm. Leadbeater.

Turn at Killcullen
PORTARLINGTON
Miss Mary Shackleton,
Ballitore.

I received your favour, but not from John Taylor's hand
as you desired, however I waited on him, & was very happy
to hear that you & your mother were quite recovered from
your late indisposition - I am extremely sorry I was
not able to go to town at the time I proposed, what prevented
me, I will not now mention - but I believe I am one
always to be unfortunate - you were so good as to say
you were disappointed in not seeing me there - I assure
you the loss was entirely mine - The Recipe you were
kind enough to send I shall make use of I dare say 'twill
have a good effect, as it came from my kind friend -
And as to Mallow, shall have no objection as you
recommend it, however will settle about that [deletion]&[/deletion] when I
have the pleasure of seeing you in Ballitore - The
pain is mostly moved from my Stomach to my right
side, but at times I feel a great oppression on my 
stomach [deletion][/deletion] - I should not mention this to one 
of

of your delicate feelings - your disposition is such, that the
very Idea of your friend being unwell, hurts you, &
probably more than you are aware of - I should therefore
avoid every thing that would give you the smallest
uneasiness & for the future shall look for a more agreeable
subject, & think my self very well, 'tis only a little
billious complaint I have, which I expect soon to get
the better of - Taylor tells me you intend spending the
Summer in the North, is it so? - Poor Watson to 
whom you allude in the latter part of your Letter, from
your & every account I could learn of him, he was really
a great loss to all who had the pleasure of being acquainted
with him, we must bear such things patiently,
the nearest friends must part - the dissolution of this
mortal frame, is only a new birth to a more valuable
life - and the Grave is but a passage from time
to [underline]Eternity[/underline] - As soon as I can possibly make
it convenient, shall go to Ballitore, for I have a

great desire to see my friends there, I hear your Sister
is come home, please to give my Love to her, & all thy
family - Adieu my dear Mary, believe me to 
remain -
your ever affectionate
& much obliged friend
Wm. Leadbeater.
Bloomville 5th June 1786

Turn at Kilcullen
PORTARLINGTON
Mary Shackleton -
Ballitore

