May 7th 1811
I thank you, my dear Friend, for your letter;
how kind it was of you to think of writing to me when
you must have felt affliction so deeply. Lydia's amiable
qualities will long occasion you to regret her loss, indeed
I think you can never forget her - I am seriously uneasy
about Betsy Shackleton's health; I wish we could persuade
her to come to the North, I think change of scene would
be very useful to her. I know she will feel a reluctance
to leave home, but she should take care of her health
for the sake of her friends. I certainly would not be so
unfeeling as to recommend variety to her in expectation
of effacing the remembrance of Lydia from her mind, but
I know that she possesses so much true sensibility as to
make me extremely uneasy lest her health should be
injured. Ah my dear friend! I despise the person
who, in endeavouring to console for the loss of a dear
relative, would say "time will reconcile you to their
loss". Time can never reconcile us to a separation
from our friends, but we may feel pleasure in recollecting
the amiable qualities of the deceased, & in
endeavouring to follow their example - My father's
health is not better, & I cannot help being uneasy
about him. Betsy is better but I think if she does
not take great care of herself, she is far from being
out of danger. - I had a long letter from Mr. Houlbrooke
a few days ago. He & all the family at Greenbank were

well. He says "when you write to me tell me of the
Shackleton's, for Eben has either forgotten me, or thinks
that I have not interest enough in all that concerns
them to justify his writing." Poor Houlbrooke has an
extremely affectionate heart and he feels very grateful
when his friends write frequently to him. When he is
ill with the gout in his hand, and I write twice, he
will frequently say "I have written you many a letter
in my mind; you have kindly removed my uneasiness
by writing again, & I feel the full force of your friendship.
I have read Espriella's letters, & admire them
very much; they were written by Southey & Duppa.
I have been reading some of Mrs West's letters to her [deletion][/deletion] son, but
Her [wrong must have been line] a very patient, or a very
after reading five or six letters I got quite tired of them.
Her son must have been either a very patient, or a very
dull boy if he read them all. Have you seen Miss
Owenson's "Missionary". I am not very anxious to see
it. I think she has shewn extreme vanity in [deletion][/deletion]
having the volumes adorned with her portrait. I certainly
feel extremely pleased with the portrait of a friend
or the portrait or bust of a celebrated character, but I
think vanity must be the predominating feature in the
disposition of an author who would permit her portrait
to be prefixed to her works. I have not either
of the books you mention, or I would have great pleasure
in lending them to you. My father has made me a present
of a bookcase, and very nearly filled it with books. I shall
be happy to lend you any that I have. I perceive from

the London Newspapers that your book is published.
My father has been publishing that I am Editor of the
Belfast magazine; but indeed I am only corrector of the press.
After the Editor had resigned I offered to correct the proof
sheets in my leisure time until another Editor was appointed,
but I know that I am not capable of being useful
to the magazine except in comparing the proof sheets
with the M. S. & making a few alterations. I fear you
will find the last magazine very incorrect but as we
live at a distance from Belfast, blunders are frequently
made at the printing office. Indeed about two pages of
the magazine is absolute nonsense. I have been trying
to remedy the blunders, & at the end of this letter I will
give you a list of errata; & you will be so good as to
make the alterations in your copy of the magazine
The proof sheets are first sent to me, & I find
very great difficulty in making the alterations & corrections,
but when that [insertion]is[/insertion] accomplished the revise proof sheet
is sent which is very easy to correct - but owing to a
mistake the revise proof sheet of the part of the magazine
where such a number of blunders are committed, was
not sent to Lisburn Altho' I am vexed at this mistake
I cannot avoid being amused at it, for I have seldom
seen such a number of words put together without any
meaning - I hope I shall have the next magazine more
correct. Did you not admire some poems in the magazine
for March signed Delia? I thought some of them very
beautiful. The author Mrs Lamont a school mistress in
Belfast, has also [insertion]written[/insertion] the tale of Seraph. Her poem entitled an
answer to the question Why do you sigh, is I believe a history of

her own life she has suffered very great misfortunes.
How does your poor school succeed? We are delighted with
the improvement in our girls. When you write mention
Deborah & Elizabeth; I hope they have not forgotten me.
Give my dear love to them both, & to my dear Betsy
& Mary Shackleton, & Margaret, & believe me your sincerely
affectionate S Hancock
Page 297, 2nd col. last line at the bottom of the page for "I
met," read "When I visited." page 304. 2nd col. 10th. line for whole
read whose. page 298. 1st col. 6th line from the bottom of the page
insert the words[unclear]"find"[/unclear] , before "with a joyful &c" page 298. 1st.col. 7th. line from
the bottom of the page, insert the word "him", after "spared". page 298. 2nd. col. 1st. line
dele the words "since that time he thought us worthy of his company, walking
LISBURN
Mary Leadbeater
Ballitore
reading, every thing was now in common." These
words should have been placed in quite a different place
There are numerous other errors, but these blunders
make that part of magazine appear nonsensical

