
Waterford 15th 10th month 1781.
        I have made an excursion to Cork since I had the pleasure of seeing my dear Uncle last being sent to convoy [sic] a daughter of Joseph Harris who had been for some time on a visit at W:Ps: three days passed over very agreeable there in visiting my acquaintances & traversing the town Springmount brought Ballitore strongly to my mind especially as my old Friend E: Shannon was there: the good woman of the house was employed about the care of her garden & had got all the girls engaged shelling sweet peas. E: Shannon. [sic] Hannah Steevens, Anna Taverner & Sally Forbes (a young woman from Dublin who is one a visit there) formed the agreeable groupe [sic]. Sarah Neale was of her best fashion & Samuel well. The Cork folk were much alarmed while I was there by an express from Kinsale which brought account of a Fleet (supposed French) being off the coast. The Soldiers were immediately ordered to get ready to march where-ever they should be directed in consequence the City was in great bustle & confusion until a report prevailed that the Leeward Island Fleet had begun to enter the Harbour thus were they agreeably undeceived. Thomas Geldard the Younger had gone over as a Super-cargo in one of those vessels & was just returned I did not hear that R Baxter was arrived although he might in point of time be then expected. I slept at Cousin Peggys on my return who with her husband & children were well Richard the third was recruiting fast after his late illness Aby was very earnest to show me his finery. Sir Richard Cox I heard was in Clonmel recruiting but I did not see him.
        I hope thou hast got a more agreeable account of Cousin Sally Birkbecks health lately. Does Cousin Debby hold up still? I wrote to Athy some time since for linen which I expect thou wilt permit T.C. to charge to thy Account. I made inquiry about thy knife & fear to no purpose as I can not yet hear any tidings of it. Archibald gets his health pretty much as usual: his Wife is at home now they were both at the Meeting of Cork. I have not had any account of my Father since I came here nor ever any certain account of his being married Pray present me affectionately to all at home& believe me to be
        thy dutiful nephew
                William Rayner


