59	On the 11th of Fourthmonth, 1766, died Rachel Carleton, aged 78. Of this respectable woman, thus speaks her daughter Shackleton.
	“My mother went through much trouble, for a great part of her life, which seemed to be allotted in great mercy, as she had something in her nature high, though a prudent, careful woman in managing her household affairs, and in training her children; very much against dishonourable conduct in those who professed the truth; and was, I believe, more in substance than in show. Towards the latter part of her life she seemed gradually to be brought into more of the simplicity, and was of a tender spirit, very grateful to the Author of all our blessings, for His kindness in making her latter days more comfortable than she could have expected: my husband being an affectionate son, using his endeavours to make her happy, and the company of him, his worthy father and family, seemed helpful to her.”
	In this year, also died Roger Shackleton, the beloved brother of Abraham, who had at different times enjoyed the satisfaction of his company in their native land, and with whom he kept up a regular correspondence. Roger Shackleton was a person of solid sense, great worth and benevolence, much esteemed within and without the pale of his own Society. The Archbishop of York valued his character, and was pleased with his conversation; and some of his flock complained how little influence they had with him, “while Shackleton can persuade him to what he pleases.” He appears to have been a man of clear  judgment, both in spiritual and temporal matters. In a letter, on his brother’s opening school, after several judicious remarks on the best mode of teaching, he concludes: “And as to family-charges, disappointments, and exercises, to do the best is a duty; but to be uneasy at what cannot be helped is a fault; for this world, and the things of it, are mutable. So the chief ting of all, and the height of happiness, is to have the mind turned to God; for the world is but the circumference, and He the centre, and the nearer to Him, the more of self-abnegation; which state I desire we may all seek after, and grow therein.”
	The advice given to his young nephew, Richard, deserves consideration.
	“Thou mayest tell thy son, I am glad to see he is so good a proficient in writing, and other learning; and as to his casting about in his mind, that others, educated for schoolmasters, often, in some part of their lives, quit that business for others which offer, which he thinks is discouraging to one who thinks for himself, and is qualifying himself to acquire a living by what he is, through care and study, improving in. In the first place, I think it is enough for a student to improve his time in what his genius and future profit directs, & when any thing falls in his way afterwards, that offers more liberty or advantage,  he may embrace opportunities as others do, or have done, and if in his other projects he should mis-carry, then his fund of learning is a relief which other mis-carrying tradesmen may want. So that there is, even in the light he sees matters in, encouragement to proceed steadily. And I wish, for my own children, that he may pursue the truth, i.e. seek for the knowledge of it in his tender years: it is a better portion than an earthly inheritance from a family, or any acquired parts whatsoever, and, as it is found & attended to, hath a happy effect on the mind, in governing and steadying it, and in purging away all that is vile in the spirit or affections.” 1740
64	Roger Shackelton died the 6th of Thirdmonth 1766 in the 75th year of his age.
