To -- -- about ^to^ joining the society of Friends

Dear friend,
I have been favoured with thy very friendly & obliging letter, and if my correspondence could prove of any service to thee, my new friend & old pupil should be heartily welcome to the best that it might afford. I have no doubt but that, as thy letter very sensibly intimates, the first great work of the inward creation has been, in measure, effected in thee, and the Great first-moving Cause to every right religious sense, has said, Let there be light. By this light I believe thou hast seen the great superiority which future, eternal happiness has above present, temporary gratification & thy mind has been stirred to aspire after the experience of those things which make for thy present and future peace. Well, dear friend, keep to this light, and walk in the shinings of it, and thereby thou wilt know, in the progress of this inward work, a being more & more separated from the darkness. Religion consists in Knowledge & Practice, hearing Christs sayings & doing them. Our great duty then is diligently to wait on the motions of his Spirit in our own hearts, & faithfully to obey its requirings. It is not the accumulation of even right religious notions in the head; it is not a facility of writing or speaking about them from such conceptions: it is not a good capacity by which we may give a reasonable plea for our religious sentiments & conduct, and by which we may defend them from the attacks of others: it is not in these things that our stability & growth in religion consists. We may be clear in the head & yet deceived at the heart. While our eyes are roving about in speculation on these matters, an insidious adversary may lay snares for our feet, & he that thinks he stands may too late be convinced of his weakness by his fall. Let us therefore, my dear friend, walk on cautiously & circumspectly as in the day. Let us keep in the childs state while we are but children, waiting patiently to be fed in due season with food convenient for us, not seeking to be any thing in form or degree, but as the inward operative principle of life shall gradually make us. The inward as well as outward creation is, I had like to have said infinite in its variety. Let us, therefore, not be so solicitous to model our conduct after the example of others, as ^to^ desire^ous^ in simplicity to be what the Lord would have us to be. If we are passive enough in his hand to be squared, fashioned & fitted by him there is no fear but that in due time he will bring us into our proper respective places in the spiritual building, his Church. In the mean time, let us keep a watch over the wanderings of our own imaginations & know a limitation to them, as well as a bridle to our tongues. There is a laudable parsimony & frugality in religion especially suitable to young beginners in this commerce. We should not be lavish of the main stock, but rather imitate the woman who took the leaven (received the precious visitation) and hid it in the three measures of meal, till the whole body, soul & spirit was leavened. David also saith Thy word have I hid in my heart, that I might not sin against thee. And tho closes this is pent up in our own breasts, like fire in a close oven, the sooner & the more effectually it will consume the chastity & the transgressing (which is the combustible) nature, & then be as a flame of joy, purifying, keeping clean, enlightening & enlivening the mind through all its faculties. But I have thought that too free a communication of our thoughts, & disclosing of our estates to others, has rather had a tendency to make destitute & inwardly lean. It is like giving a vent to the oven, & protracting the time of the painful operation of his judgments who is said to be a consuming fire. Do not, dear --, mistake me; I do not remember to have heard of thy being too communicative in this respect: neither would I at all dissuade from imparting a little of ones feelings (under a fresh sense, and with a proper freedom) to a near friend. We are on all sides surrounded with dangers, and we have but the One all-sufficient help, which is the grace of God. As our spirits happily keep in unity with this, we shall be taught when and how to be free, and when to be reserved. This is the key of David, which locks and unlocks. This is that which alone qualifies to shew forth, by our ^tenets^, lives & conversations that we are in reality Christians, followers of Christ. And after all is said and done, this is what those of our profession, and of all modes of Religion under heaven must come to be led and taught by, if they ever come to be enabled to live acceptably in the sight of their common Creator, whilst here, or ever become prepared for an eternity of happiness hereafter.
	To this Divine Instructor, infallible Guide and saving help, I heartily commend thee, & joined by my wife in dear love to thee, & good wishes for thee, remain, Dear --,

Thy affectionate friend
Richard Shackleton
Ballitore: 6/12 month 1772.

