Parndon August 27 1805
Much esteemed Friend
I have long intended myself the pleasure of answering
your kind letter written to me last June, and of enclosing another ten pound Note for
the use of Owen Fyns Widow and children, and I am quite shocked to think that the
year is more than elapsed, and that you have not received the money. The account that
you were so good as to send me about the poor Woman and her four children was very acceptable
I shall hope to hear that they have all continued to deserve the interest that you have
taken in them; and that the mothers Shop succeeds, and that she continues to spin
and to keep her children clean and neat, and also that the eldest Boy whom you said
[unclear]was[/unclear] asthmatical, is in better health, and that the two Girls and little Owen improve
[unclear]under[/unclear] their worthy Schoolmistress. I hope that she will teach the Girls to spin and knit . .

as to little Owen his acquirements of course, must be confined to reading writing and
accounts. I shall hope to hear that he is a sharp child, and shews good dispositions
About a fortnight ago, I visited a School that is conducted by a very worthy man
whose name is Lancaster, one of your Persuasion, whose method of instruction is so very
excellent and expeditious that he instructs 660 Boys and a 150 Girls with more
ease than a far far smaller number has hitherto been instructed. He has published
his method of instruction, which I should be very happy to convey to you, could you point me
out a ready way of doing it, but that I think it is very likely that even before you receive
this letter, Mr. Lancaster will be in Ireland and will have established there some of his
most excellent Schools. When we visited his children, he then said that he meant to go -
which greatly rejoiced [insertion]us[/insertion], as we long much to have our Sister Ireland enjoy so great a
Benefit.

My Son with a Friend of his, are now making the Tour of your Country, Should they call
upon you, you must not be surprized, if they should in the course of the Journey that they
have yet to perform, come within a few miles of Ballitore, you will probably see them; and then
my Son will see my little Boy Owen. - you would be much shocked at the decision in the House
my Son will see my little Boy [unclear]Owen[/unclear] Owen. - You would be much shocked at the decision in the House
of Commons in February last, when the Bill for the Abolition of the Slave Trade was
lost by [underline]Seven[/underline]. It was a grievous! an ever to be lamented Circumstance!
Pray how did your Countrymen bear the loss of the Bill for the Catholic Emancipation?
Mr. Smith who was very earnest in the business, opened the Debate on the second
day, do you think that the Event was the Subject of much disappointment in Ireland?
We were all much concerned, but we were told by many that we ought not to regret the loss
of the Bill. How was it felt? How was it talked of by the Catholics of your Acquaintance

August 1807
You are quite welcome to have your letters directed under cover to
Mr. Smith, as one a month from yourself and Friend will not inconvenience
him - The direction is, William Smith Esqr- M P- Parndon near
Harlow Essex - and you will be so good as to be cautious that the
Letters [underline]do not weigh quite an ounce[/underline]
I am very glad the attempt has been made to teach Owen to knit, and
I daresay after a little preliminary discourse from you, that in the winter
you will succeed, and your scheme for teaching the [unclear]juring[/unclear] Boys is a
very good one indeed. I should think that if a little reward were given to
them, and perhaps if it were added that whole Schools of Boys in England

