3.
find out, nor do I know any person that has yet done it
If I could procure the number here I would send it to thee.
Poor Joe! how many reverses of Fortune he has experienced,
all of which may be fairly attributed to his inordinate
vanity! and yet perhaps any other man under similar
circumstances & temptations, would have acted as strangely.
At all events when we feel disposed to pass sentence on
[underline]him[/underline], let us not forget the inestimable advantages
which Mankind have derived & are deriving from his
system of Education, & we shall probably feel inclined to
overlook the faults of our common Nature, which he has
displayed.-
This City was visited a short time
since by sixteen Indian Chiefs from the Missouri
Country, beyond the Council Bluffs, about 3000 miles
from the Atlantic in the direction they travelled. An
officer of the U.S. from that remote station accompanied
them by order of the Government, at whose expence they
travelled from place to place. - The object in bringing
those Indians so far from their Native tribes, was to
impress their minds, & thro' them, the minds of their brethren
with a proper idea of the riches & strength of the Whites
about whom, they were before, entirely ignorant or
nearly so. I called to see them several times, & I thought
them, by far the finest Indians I had ever seen - they
reminded me at once of the lofty, high minded Savage,
of whom I had frequently read, & wished to behold.
Most of them, were powerful Chiefs of different Tribes,
& two or three, were Warriors of great renown. - the

upper part of their bodies, was quite naked, except when
loosely covered with a blanket, & their trowsers or rather
pantaloons were of leather. - their hair & ears were fitted
with rude ornaments, & their faces, painted - some white,
some red, & some a mixture of different colours. - They
all had intelligent countenances, & fine, piercing black eyes
One of them had his wife or Squaw, who had really
a fine face. - They were conducted to all the curiosities
in the City, places of amusement &c, but, in
true Indian fashion, would not suffer any remarks of
wonder or amazement at what they saw, to escape them.
One of them, indeed, went so far as to say that he was
very sorry he had ever left his country, & being asked
why, he replied because it would take seven years
to tell his friends all he had observed among the
Whites! They were fond of getting presents of glass
beads, necklaces &c, & seemed more interested in them
than with the city or buildings. - I should like to
have dived into their thoughts, to realize the feelings
which their novel situations must have occasioned - &
to know whether they most envied or pitied us!
I dare say, not one of them would exchange his hunter
garb, for the Presidency, or quit his savage life for
all our refinement! After remaining here
a few days, they returned to Washington, where they will
probably spend some time longer. -
The Winter, thus far, has been remarkably
mild, with the exception of two or three severe days
lately. We have had no snow worth mentioning, & the

harbour remains free from Ice - but the weather here is
subject to such sudden changes, I should not at all be
surprised, to see persons crossing our rivers on the ice
within this week! . -
Newyear's day was peculiarly fine,
& afforded a favorable opportunity for the renewal of a
custom which has subsisted in Newyork from time immemorial, -
namely for every gentleman to visit the Ladies
of those families with whom he was acquainted; - I
believe this custom is derived from the Dutch, but it is
kept up by all classes, & has, as thou may suppose,
a lively & social effect. I paid about 25 visits
before dinner, which I thought very well, until
a young man of my acquaintance declared that he
had paid upwards of 70! - Many persons never exchange
visits except on this occasion, when they wish
their old friends to know that they are still alive.
But hold - I must stop my [underline]loquacity[/underline] for the present,
as I am sure thou wilt think my Epistle quite long
enough; & therefore with my affectionate remembrance
to all who may still remember me in Ballitore, particularly
my old Master's family, the Mill, A Taverner
& H Haughton, E Barrington, thy sister Sally & the members
of thy own family - besides my good nurse Dolly;
I remain very sincerely
Thy friend
Jacob Harvey
Please tell Betsy S. that I often
recur with pleasure to our "auld
acquaintance" -
Willet Hicks reached home in safety five
weeks ago, & is quite well.-
In answer to thy query about horses, I believe they are "broken" in America
very much in the same manner as in England.
Wm Forster is somewhere in Indiana or Kentucky - he was to have
paid Morris Birkbeck a visit. - E. Coggeshall is somewhere in
Ohio I believe - George Withy about Baltimore - Stephen Grellet
is well & frequently preaches to us. - At our Monthly Meeting a few
days ago, I counted 18 Ministers, which is by no means [insertion]an[/insertion] unusual number

Mary Leadbeater
Post Office
Ballitore
Co. Kildare

