Ballitore 1st day 10/14 32
My dear Eliza
Here I am sitting in
the two bedded room at Betsey Barrington's
Mary J is taking a nap in the easy
chair after dinner, and as I did not
feel inclined to follow her example I thought
I might employ myself writing as Jos will
go tomorrow and I expect will take it.
Mary J Elizth B H Allen & I took a walk to the
nine tree hill to day after meeting, I have
walked very little since I came here, not
as much as I ought, Mary J has been so
busy about one thing or another she has
had no time. it was very pleasant to
see the Jacobs yesterday, I came here to
Betsy's B's and have had the pleasure of
their company. I felt much gratified
at receiving thy letter by Sarah, it was
a pleasant one, and much wished for
about you, poor Manliff, how satisfied
as I was longing to hear some particulars

and thankful we ought to be that he escaped
so well, I hope he may be able to keep
up his spirits, during his long confinement
as I am afraid it will be some time before
he will be well. I did not think from
what I first heard of it that it was so bad
as it is, but thy letter satisfied me in that
particular, thou must have been greatly
frightened; my mother being in town
and no one at home but thyself. I heard
that Patty Stephens is gone to you, she will
be company for you since Lucy and Emy
are gone, poor little Emy who would think
that she would miss you all so much as
thou said. Sarah seems to enjoy herself
very much down here, she took me to Moore
yesterday in the car, it was a very fine
day and pleasant jaunt after some very
unpleasant and damp weather which
we had last week. I need scarcely tell thee
that this is a much pleasanter place than
the mill, certainly it is wonderful the difference
between kindness of manner and
the contrary, thou knows how pleasant

Betsy B. is I therefore need not tell thee.
I have not left the mill entirely, I came
here sooner on account of the Jacobs. They
are going tomorrow for which I am sorry,
a car has come from Mt Melick for them
so there is no chance of their staying longer.
Mary desires her love she & I are sitting
at the fire warming their feet as it is now
past twelve and almost time for us to
go to bed. I hope thou wilt
write to me a full and
true account of you all I will
be very anxious to hear of poor
Manliff so thou wilt write without
doubt. Mary desires her kind remembrance
to my Mother, to whom give
my dear love and tell her I am
quite well and hope to go home
well and stout also my dear love to
Manliff Arthur & Frederic and now
farewell and with dear love to thyself
I am thy affectte. Sister
Selina
Elizabeth sends her love and Betsy Bennett would
do so if she were here but she is gone to bed she

was speaking this evening of thee and said
she hoped thou would pay her a visit.
HIGH S[unclear][/unclear]
2
Eliza Barrington
Glendruid
Cabinteely

