Feeling quite acquainted with mary leadbeater by frequent
communication with Thomas Wilkinson, I do not make any apology for addressing
her, which indeed I have long thought of doing, as well to have the pleasure of
hearing again from her, as to make request that she will appropriate to the
use of owen Finns widow and children the enclosed sum, whether for cloathing
or putting one or two of the young ones to School, or in any way that she may
judge best for them. - To do them good is the end proposed, and Mary Leadbeater
knows how that is to be effected. - They may depend upon receiving it again next
year, if Mrs.. Smith lice, and M L recommend it. For the Widows story,
deeply deeply affected her mind, and she is concerned to think that
Frances Smith
Blake Nuke Hall Essex 8/6 mo: 1804
Answered - -18- -

it has not sooner employed her [unclear][/unclear]- - Her own retirement now on a very melancholy
occasion called back the mournful Sale to her mind. On Sunday last her dear Sister
breathed her last. She was both a wife and a mother, and lived surrounded by
every blessing, but many solemn warnings she has had of this awful event. Epilepsy
Palsy, apoplexy combined their force against her feeble frame, for several years the
strength of her constitution was permitted to resist their terrible attack, at last she
fell - It was a slow sudden death with respect to her Body, but with respect to
her mind, a prepared End, as a blessed paper [unclear]traced[/unclear] by her feeble hand these days
before her death fully shewed - She had for near two years been almost totally deprived
of the powers of speech, gradually her limbs had refused their office, her poor fingers
could no longer write, when last week being in London for the advice of another Physician, her
faithful servant who has been with her eleven years, put a pen into her hand, and asked
her to write a little, thinking that it would amuse her - She took the Pen, and with her feeble
and trembling hand, that had not written for a length of time before and never wrote again

she traced some lines scarcely legible, which Mr. [unclear][/unclear] found upon the table and gave to us,
after he had lost her, to decypher. W. Smith and [insertion]I[/insertion] knowing the characters she was used
to make, contrived to read it, and the enclosed is a copy. Some few words you will observe
we could not decypher, and it was abruptly broken off by Mr [unclear]C[/unclear] return with one of
my daughter to sit with her. But it is a blessed Paper, and shews the resignation of
her mind, hurt as it had been by long and continued illness. We cannot too highly prize it.
Mr.. Wilkinson would mention my intention of writing to you when last he wrote, so I shall not
make any apology, but shall only say that I shall be happy to hear from you again, and
when I know that these two half Notes, have safely reached you, their other halves shall
follow. you will do me the favor to write under cover to Wm. Smith Esqr. MP Park Street
Westminster London, and if you are disposed to put a Letter for Thomas Wilkinson into the
frank, pray do, and we will forward it. The Frank will bring anything under an ounce
Were my family here I know that they would join me in best wishes & respects to yourself,
and Husband and children. But Mr. Smith was obliged to go to town to attend the

Debate in the House of commons concerning the Slave Trade, which we hope will soon
be brought to a happy issue, and that most iniquitous traffic be done away for ever and
for ever. Mr. Smith has long seconded W. Wilberforce with all his powers in this great
attempt, and the Ruler of Events, will we trust allow us the unspeakable Happiness of seeing
it finally abolished - My friend Thomas Wilkinson, asked in his Last if I knew Mrs. St. George
when I was at Paris, twice I met her, and I thought her [insertion]an[/insertion] agreeable Woman, the Gentleman
whom she has married, is I apprehend of Ireland, and Brother to Lord Ashdown -
Pray favor me when you write with some little Sketch of the State of your Country. I am
extremely interested for our Sister Island, and my heart has bled at your recital of her
Woes. I shall rejoice to hear that she is recovering the wounds war has made in her very
bosom; and that the ravages made in your Ballitore, are now [insertion]no[/insertion] longer visible, your description
of which, both in verse and prose deeply impressed me.
Adieu, my Paper stops me, and bids me tell you that I am with much regard & esteem
Blake Hall Esscoe
Blake Hall Essex
June 8 1804
Yours
Frances Smith

