

113			R. S. to E. S.
	My Dear Wife,
		*** I have some hopes that a letter will have arrived at London from you, and that it will be forwarded to me from thence to Norwich, where I expect to be to morrow night. Their yearly-meeting is to be there next week. Thou seest how I venture to ramble about; no, I hope, through vain curiosity, nor fleshly ease and security, but, with my dear family and the numerous charge committed to us much in my thoughts, and being now and then enabled to commit them all to the Divine protection, and the mediation of the hand of Omnipotence. I doubt not but ye feel the want of me in several respects; however, hope this excursion may prove of some benefit. I have hereby an opportunity of acquainting myself more perfectly with the general state of the Society, and of knowing some families and individuals very well worth being known. My son is under the necessity of coming more under the burden of the business, which it is very incumbent on him to get experience of, in its various branches and circumstances.  He will see the absolute necessity there is of steadiness in his department and time of life, and close attention to the improvement of every pupil, in every part of his learning and conduct, and how, under Providence, that is the main pillar of the house, under which and by which we principally live; and, above all, he will see that our best endeavours are as nothing, without the sanction of the Divine blessing; and, I trust, even the embarrassments and trials which he may additionally meet with, in my absence, will tend and conspire to strengthen a strong cry in him for best wisdom. ** Of him, thou knowest, my dearest, that our hopes are much fixed as to outward, temporal view, being the only male remainder of our house. If religion has room to operate in its own way, manner, and extent, in his heart, he will infallibly do well: if he suffer the mixture of the creature to preponderate--the earthly, in any shape, to supersede the heavenly; & his will and choice to incline to the world, its spirt and its wisdom, his progress in the holy path (a path replete with every solid comfort of this anda  better life) will be greatly retarded or blocked up, and his future life dis-quieted with many a disagreeably alloy. But, (thanks to that Power which has measurably preserved us, my dear, as we kept, in some degree, our hold of the chain, and which, through great, unmerited kindness, is, I trust, visiting our offspring,) I am comforted in a belief that our son will make the best choice, even choose wisdom of the best kind; and not only choose it, but, with an holy-importunity, earnestly pray for it to be his guide and safe guard, through the intricate labyrinth and perils which may attend him in his short passage over the stage of this uncertain life: so will the blessing of his dignified ancestors fall upon him, his morning and noon-day sun shine with unclouded lustre, & its splendour illuminate the mild evening of his day. This, my dear, is our earnest wish, not only for him, but for all our dear children. I hope they will each excuse my not writing to them. Till this morning it has hardly been practicable for me, with propriety, to commune with you after this manner. Traveling, public meetings, private opportunities, a variety of feelings, prevent the inclination and the capacity (the “to will and to do”) from uniting. ***
Woodbridge 21st of Sixthmonth 1776.				R. S.

