
        That it was not convenient to my dear Uncle to let me hear from him is my great loss, & I am very sorry for it; for i am particularly desirous of receiving written admonitions, which I may peruse over & over again, my retention being so weak that once hearing or reading any thing is not sufficientI often think myself a dishonour to the family, when I consider how much every branch of it is my superiour [sic] in all that is good & laudable. Any person endowed with a common understanding, who had such a good opportunity of improvement as I, must have been expected to make a great progress in literature; & certainly he would if Nature had pointed out such a course for him. Thy partiality made thee think my capacity not very mean; however thy kind words were so far from encouraging me, that they only humbled me the more, as I perceived how little I deserved them.
        I intended to have written by some of the Friends going to Ennisworthy, & know not what prevented me; & lest I should be too late to shew thee I did not disregard thee, I send this to meet thee in Dublin, & enclosed a letter which came last post. The hope of seeing thee & my dear Aunt soon gives me great pleasure. Home no doubt will be very agreeable after so long an absence.We hear very pleasing accounts from several, of Mollys improvement in oratory, & she acknowledges it herself: while she declaimes in her chamber every evening all around her is hush to death. I hope thou wilt find her time was not badly spentOn seventh day Desvoeuxs father came & took his son away; I understand he designs to send him to the linen business to the North. Cousin Debby is very well & also Cousin Lydia, we have had the former with us three days during her brothers absence: I expect she will have imbibed a taste for flowers, she takes such good care of them while my Aunt is away; neither is she negligent about the harvest, for she has got all the hay made before the weather changed to her no small satisfaction. The bere is not all reaped yet: W: Gill iset [?] about it this morning, & expected to have the Burnt-church field all cut to-day; the other field he says is not quite ripe, but hopes to have it all stacked before you returnI could be almost tempted to make an apology for the uncouthness of my stile, was I not writing to an indulgent Friend who would let me see my faults only to amend them. Debby joins me in dear love I am Dear Uncle thy dutiful Nephew
        William Rayner


Ballitore, 26th 7th month 1779

