Waterford Ninthmonth 10th 1798
Thy letter, my dear Cousin, was very welcome; affording
an assurance that the accounts I before received of your safety
were well founded. Your situation must have been very distressing
I hope we shall never again experience any thing
similar. It is a melancholy satisfaction to me to think
that my old friend Francis was innocent. In addition to
the shock on hearing of his fate I was not a little surprised
at the report of his being implicated in treason
- it was said here that Phelps & Cousin Abm. were present
previous to his death & on being appealed to for a character
of him - turned away without offering any thing
in his favour. Although this was not the actual seat
of disturbance we were exposed to repeated alarms previous
to the Battle of Ross - several of the suffering
inhabitants of Enniscorthy & Wexford having escaped
to this place took shipping for England & Wales - their
example was followed by the people of Waterford - many
families were sent off - some of whom especially the
wealthier
Wm Rayner
Waterford 10/9 mo: 1798
Ansd. 10/10

wealthier still continue away. My Wife took to flight with
her two sisters & two little daughters & staid near thee months
away. Whitehaven (where she was) was crowded with
Irish Emigrants mostly women & children - there was
no asylum for men except the prisons unless they brought
proper passports. The late alarm of French invasion has
struck a fresh panick but I think not so general as
before. If I can accomplish it I am very desirous
of paying you a visit & will endeavour to obtain liberty
at some future time - now it is out of the question.
I am obliged by thy sundry communications respecting
the families & the neighbours I wish the restoration of
tranquility to all & of health to Cousin Deborah.
It is pleasing to learn my Aunts situation is as
comfortable as can be expected. I have no doubt
of thy endeavours to make her easy. Edward Moore
has called on me for this Letter he & his wife propose
spending some time with their relations near
Ballitore. He waits & I must conclude with love to all Friends.
Thine Sincerely Wm Rayner

