supposed
1834 or 5
My dear Eliza
We were going to bed last night when
Maurice got here, it was so late we had given him
up, my Mother was growing uneasy lest something
should have happened, however he got safe & said
he did not delay need-lessly. The last day I gave
thee an account of was 2nd day. 3rd we went to
Poulafouca to shew it to Sally. She seemed greatly
pleased with it indeed it looked remarkably well
there was a good fall of water, one can not feel
much to themselves there for several parties were
there before we were. we could not stop long as
we had a good deal farther to go so left it soon
and turned off the [insertion]high[/insertion] road to Bally more Eustace
and round by Harris-town we were not home till
five oclock dinner. we were all tired after our
jaunt as well as the poor mare. 4th Market
day here so we are to stay at home, B Shackleton
came over to break fast before any of us were up,
he did not stay very long after as Sally and I did
not go to walk with him. it was an idle day

nothing doing every one so busy getting in the
corn which seems to have ripened all at once,
Francis said he heard yesterday that they were giving
two shillings and diet to the men a day. After dinner
on 4th day we took a little jaunt to [unclear]Journant[/unclear] as it was
too far for my Mother to walk. the view was not very
clear, it was cold & much like the last evening I
was there with thee. On 5th day we all set off to
Meeting leaving Francis at home to mind the three
children it was a beautiful day we got there in good
time, went to meeting and afterwards paid a visit
to H Allens who came from town yesterday I believe &
looks wretchedly. we then went to T Coles on the way
met Cousin Betsy who came with us, then we proceeded
to the school, & then to Abby W. to buy earthenware
She was very busy unpacking goods & the place was
all stewed over with various articles in that line
again the choice was made it was time to go for
dinner which was at two oclock but I believe I did
not tell thee it was at Cousin Betsy's we were to
dine. The company consisted of our kind hostess her
Aunt Pike, little, M White my Mother Lucy Sally M
Elizabeth & my self a complete female party. After
dinner my Mother Cousin B & I went to Fullers court
called at the Mill & then to Georges, & back to tea

where Mary & Ann White found us, we left it
as quickly as we could to go home where we arrived
late enough & found all well during our absence
the children all very good. Emy tries to say a great
 many things but it is difficult to understand her
she does not look stout but runs about as merrily as
ever, Peggy's face is as pleasant as ever & Fanny is
a pretty little thing but will be very light complexioned.
My Mother says she has no message
she is very glad to hear thou art getting on so
pleasantly & hopes it will continue so.
Thou had scarcely time yet to feel lonesome
having had so many visitors, [deletion]& seen[/deletion] this
is the fair of Ballitore and of Donard so I suppose
it will be an idle day here. Sally M did not
return with us last night she is in bad spirits
but says she is better already for being in the country.
Betsy B desired her love to thee when I wrote
next, she goes to the Co. Wexford tomorrow with her
Aunt Pike, there were many asking for thee in Ballitore,
Sally Pim bid me tell thee that the
Garden is clean because she said she [insertion]knew[/insertion] thou would
like to hear of it. Lucy desires her love, besure
when thou writes next to mention Sally Bergan

how she is, Nurse is very anxious about her
write soon with love to Manliff and Arthur I
am thy affecte Sister Selina
I heard yesterday in Ballitore that Isabel Downes
was very ill, is it true, thou did not mention
her which I think thou would if any thing was
the matter.
Eliza Barrington
Glendruid
Cabinteely

