THE NEGRO.
Addrest to Edmund Burke Esq.
O thou, our country's boast, our age's pride,
Freedom's firm friend, & pity's generous guide,
Great Burke, who hastes, when misery's voice complains,
And Nature's violated law maintains -
Hark! Nature speaks in injur'd Afric's right,
And deeds of horrour are disclos'd to light.
Thou wast not silent that important day,
On such a theme thou coulds't not silent stay:
When such a voice arose in such debate,
And truth roll'd onward with impetuous weight,
Who dared to vindicate the impious deed,
And with unblushing front for slavery plead?
Are not thy laws, O Britain, wise & good,
Though oft the sword of justice drops with blood?
If murder stain the ruffian's cruel hand,
Or rapine seize what labour shou'd demand,
The

The life is forfeit, social ties are o'er,
And the just laws protect the wretch no more,
And shall these laws, to curb oppression made,
Shall these defend oppression's guilty trade?
Shall rapine wild, shall murder foul with gore
Ravage unblamed affrighted Afric's shore,
And vilest treachery basely bear away
From the lov'd native land the human prey,
And venturous man resolve (more rash than brave)
Resolve to make his fellow man a slave?
But that hard heart, which wou'd not here relent,
Soon finds the crime become the punishment
The generous boast of liberty is flown
The seeds of vengeance are by slavery sown,
Ruling dejected men with sovereign sway,
The tyrant looks that [underline]all[/underline] mankind obey:
With

With disappointed pride, his haughty breast
Burns, & tumultuous passions rack his rest.
Or, in their wretched huts while captives weep,
See keen remorse, roused by the wailings deep,
Stalk round his nightly couch & murder sleep.
What though wealth on thee pour her golden flood,
(Ah, dearly purchased with thy brother's blood!)
Wealth buys not peace - the poor man pities thee -
Would's thou be happy - set thy captives free.
How oft did Woolman's tears these woes deplore,
When that pure spirit mortal clothing wore!
He stood a sign the wondering world among,
Nor touch'd the product of oppressive wrong;
He saw, he mourn'd the hapless Negro's fate,
Bound in the horrours of a captive state,
Saw Nature's tenderest ties asunder tore,
To swell the unfeeling master's sordid store,
And deeds of deadly die & foulest shame,
Affix dishonour to the Christian name;
Heard the deep groans the sable bosoms rend,
(Shall not these groans to pitying heaven ascend?)
"And

"And these are they," he cried," whose labouring hands
"With ceaseless toil maintain those peopled lands;
"To them the means of life are scarce supplied,
"While their lords revel in luxurious pride;
"And yet the right of liberty is their's,
"No duty dooms them to these servile cares,
"And though proud man has mercy's law denied,
"These are the souls, for which a saviour died;
"And how we act to these we must reply
"To him, who views mankind with equal eye."
So spake the sage - & glad his heart had been,
Had he this dawning day of freedom seen -
O favour'd age! - the genial beams expand
The feeling bosom & the liberal hand;
The poor are pity'd, all are Nature's Sons,
And soften'd man his abject brother owns,
The youth to learning & to labour trains,
And smooths the couch, where pale disease complains.
E'en on the cell, where guilt & misery lie,
Streams the sweet ray from Mercy's gracious eye:
For rank'd in Virtue's cause her chiefs appear,
Illustrious names to future ages dear!
not

Not their's the bloody pomp of martial meed,
But brighter honours crown the nobler deed.
There princely Leopold his sway maintains,
Mild as the breeze, which fans his Tuscan plains;
Though rigo[deletion]u[/deletion]rous Justice guards the favour'd shore,
He bids the sword of Justice [underline]Slay[/underline] no more;
He deem'd that Nature's laws no right cou'd have
To take the life the God of Nature gave.
Where [deletion]When[/deletion] the deserted babes protection find,
Their little lives to strangers' hands consign'd,
There noble Arabella's worth is tried,
Her sexe's glory, & her nations pride;
While generous Raikes bids idle sport give way,
And useful lore defend the solemn day;
And Howard, like a pitying angel, speeds
From clime to clime, while misery's cause he pleads,
The dungeon's depth all-resolute explores,
Though putrid steams bedew the Iron-doors.
The sable vail see dauntless Clarkson rend,
And bold avows himself the captive's friend,
Invoking sacred pity's heavenly rain,
To wash the blood, which rusts upon his chain.
There

There, Burke, thy lov'd, thy honour'd name shall stand
And add new splendour to the godlike band,
The gracious Father, universal Friend,
To whom the cries of guiltless blood ascend,
He to thy change superiour powers assign'd,
And bless'd thee with the love of human kind -
O then continue still, thus doubly blest,
Thy generous zeal to succour the distrest!
Let proud oppression from thy voice retire,
While the rapt nations kindle at thy fire;
Let either India echo back thy name,
While conscious virtue yields the dearest fame.
And when thy noble soul shall wing it's flight
To the pure realms of liberty & light;
There, where the wicked shall no more molest,
There, where the wearied, wounded spirits rest,
There, where the captives meet, their sorrows o'er,
And tremble at the oppressor's voice no more;
Amid the holy bands, who glorious shine,
Forever hymning forth their songs divine,
The Patriarchs just by early Nature blest
With the first sweets of her maternal breast;
Th'

Th' inspired seers, whose heaven illumin'd eye
Futurity's dark regions could descry;
Th' Apostles, who the sacred mandates bore
Of universal grace from shore to shore;
And the meek Martyrs with their precious blood
Sealing those truths a blinded world withstood;
Amid those holy bands, that peaceful fold,
Shalt thou the naked Negro-slave behold,
Whose manly limbs the servile chain confin'd,
And heathen darkness wrap'd his fetter'd mind;
The work of God, the spirit, & the frame,
His tyrant fellow man depress'd with shame.
What though his ear no social lip inform'd,
The heart he made the gracious Maker warm'd;
Though small his knowledge, yet his guide was true,
He kept that guide & practised what he knew.
MS.

