Elizabeth Dale to E R. ^Elizabeth Raynor^ Skipton 8 month 26th, 1762


Dear Cousin, - Tis now several years since the correspondence between thee and me dropped; but 
notwithstanding that, I have often thought of thee, particularly of late. I think few days have passed over my head, but I have had thee in remembrance many and various are the trials I have passed through since I wrote last to thee; and though I am but young in years, I have met with a good deal of trouble on various accounts; part, I confess, of my own bringing on, a consideration tending rather to aggravate than alleviate them. I have been near six years married to a young man, a neighbour, with whom I contracted an acquaintance when but a girl; but knowing how disagreeable the match would be to my father, I durst not, on any consideration,  consent to it in his lifetime, but engaged myself to marry him if I should survive my father, who was suddenly removed from us by death. Presently after the affair got out, and reached the knowledge of Friends, who took unwearied pains to prevent it, and laboured with me in much love, to desist and refrain from his company, but all to no purpose. I cannot express, nor, I believe, shall ever forget the conflicts I had between duty and a foolish inclination. The last prevailed, and I fled from the faces of my best friends, (I thought them so, even then), to rid me of their kind and well-meant importunities. I was greatly dissatisfied with the step I had taken, even at the time I was taking it. I knew I was wrong; and, after my marriage, was in a gloomy lethargic disposition of mind (regretting my unhappy state, and the cause of it), but afterwards grew more and more uneasy under it. I became serious of making public confession of my error; and beg to be reconciled to my friends, for whom all along I entertained a loving regard. I accordingly wrote a paper in much sincerity of heart and I hope some degree of repentance) [sic, missing first parenthesis], to the Monthly Meeting, desiring, and hoping, it might have acceptance without my present appearance; but Friends thinking that necessary two months after (the Monthly Meeting being held there) I had notice of it given me, and that Friends expected me there. I went into the Meeting, I may truly say, in much awe, fear, and trembling. The paper being read, questions agreeable and necessary to the occasion were asked me, to which I  was too much affected to return any other, but broken and unintelligible answers. Friends compassionated my case, and in much love and charity granted my petitions, since which I have been favoured with their tender regard and notice:  though I cannot go to Meetings so often as I could wish. My husband has no aversion to Friends, yet he is not willing I should go when I am likely to be wanted at home, which on week-days especially is the case, as we keep a little shop, and my husband at his own trade. And notwithstanding my heart is in some measure more at ease than before, yet I have still many difficulties to encounter. I have three children; my eldest, a fine girl who was taken away from us before she could go alone, and has continued with my husbands mother ever since, who is unwilling to part with the child; and the poor little creature is  already often distressed to know how to behave betwixt us. She would go to meetings with me and use the single language, and tells me she dares not, for fear of offending her grandmother, whom the child is very fond of. I long to have her at home, but my husband will not allow me to hint my desire to his mother; but I hope I shall live to gain that point. My little boy and girl at home (if I dont live to see them grow up, or probably if I do) may fall into improper hands, and under the tuition of people, who, for want of having a proper care over them, may expose them to temptations and afflictions they might have been exempt from, had mine been a more prudent choice. 
        And now, dear Cousin, I have in some degree informed thee how things have been and are with me, though I am pretty much a stranger to the particulars of thy situation. I heard some time ago, with concern, that thou enjoyest but poor health, and was under great depression of spirits, a state I have been a little tried with, though many who were never so faulty as I have been (many good and worthy people) have known it. I believe it is a painful trying time, & though Providence is all-sufficient yet the company and regard of good friends may be of service, and the means of pouring the balm and consolation into an afflicted humble heart. Tis far from my design to give thee any offence,  or to take upon me to advise, knowing myself a very improper person to do it; and I hope I dont value upon my own recommendation with Friends. I am sure every time I think upon it, though it is a comfort to me, it helps rather to humble than exalt me in my own opinion. Shall be very glad of a line or two from thee when it is convenient, and should be pleased if thou wouldst write to me with the same freedom & confidence I have used to thee, and should be very joyful if thou wert perfectly reconciled to thy friends and parents, and that thy worthy father and mother may yet live to have comfort in thee, and thou in them. My good wishes attend thy husband and children.  From thy affectionate kinswoman, Elizabeth Dale.
