Mountmelick 11th of 7th mo: 1808
My very dear aunt
When I say I was heartily sorry to hear of thy
indisposition, and very glad to know thou wast better,
I'm sure thou wilt believe me, for thou well knowest
I love thee, and rejoice at thy welfare, yet my long silence
may appear to contradict this, for which I can
make no apology, as I might have written ere this.
Last 7th day afternoon Anne Peisley quietly
departed, she suffered a great deal since this day two
weeks, but was preserved in patience, she knew Robert
Goodbody a short time before her release, he was with her
at the last, and has been very attentive to her all along, very
few young men would have done so much, for a weak old
woman. What a pity he is not more agreeable in his
manner; for he is very good natured, governess took us
to see A. P.'s remains after evening meeting yesterday; she
looked very like herself: she is to be interred at Mt Rath,
the funeral has just passed, a very small one. I

think thou heard the dream she had some time ago about
Anne Strongman, it was thought by man here, that
she would go first, as she was very ill and A.P. seemed detained
detained by something above human comprehension: A.S.
by something above human comprehension: A.S.
recovered and was able to attend morning meeting yesterday
so how the dream is to come out, I cannot tell. How
is Richard Pike? I think it would be a favour if he
were released; Betsy and Mary had doubtless a trying
time with him: is his appetite still good?
Huldah Gin told me Hanna Haughton intend
going to the Enniscorthy meeting, did she go? How is Anna?
Jane Thucker, her mother and sister are in town, Jane is to
come to school here.
Hast thou any expectations of coming to the
Committee? I wish I could hear what is fixed about
it, whether my mother intend going to Bloomville or
no; if she do I wish she would go there on her way here,
my aunt and Mary Anne were here last 6th day, the
former expects I will be left a while with her; tho'
I hope I am sensible of her kindness I would prefer

going home, and settling at once.
James Pim sends for his sons on 4th day, I intend
to send this by the man if he will take it: I wish
thou would get Mary or Margaret to write by them, tho'
I don't intend writing to either any more: Mary is in
my debt. I had another letter from Mary Penrose
last week, she is a great comfort to her mother, whose
health is greatly improved, since she went home.
Please ask my mother if she have a letter for M.
Haughton, if so, Margaret would be obliged by her sending
it: I did not hear one word about the wedding.
Dost thou often go to Boakefield? I should think
wee Tommy would be a great inducement.
Governor desires her dear love to thee; now for a commission;
do give mine to all at Griesebank, uncle and aunt
in particular, cousins White, Fanny Bewley, Anne & Hannah
Abby and Becky, Betsy & Mary, Jane Thomas, Molly Haughton,
Joshua & Molly. Mammy Molly and in short every one
else thou chooses, my letter is at least a loving one, if it
be nothing better. Farewel my dear aunt says thy affte niece
Elizabeth Leadbeater

Elizth Leadbeater
Mt. Mellick: 11th of 7th mo: 1808.
She returned 16th - -
Sarah Shackleton
Griese bank
Ballitore

