My dear Father,

	Yesterday I was favoured with thy kind letter, I was sorry you should be made uneasy by the failure of the post, as I was not deficient in punctually answering thy former letter of 29 ultimate the day after the receipt of it, but as the post does not go out 6 day evenings could not send it until the evening following, 1st instant. I then dispatched it to the post-Office, & was disappointed to receive blame for not writing instead of an acknowledgment of the receipt of my letter. I thought myself of late very careful not to give you uneasiness by my silence, therefore think my condemnation [word crossed out] ^ought^ to be suspended until a certainty is obtained. I hope ere this my letter has reached you. I continue thro mercy quite restored to health, abstaining about three weeks from Animal food (by the judicious advice of Doctor Harris) proved in appearance very serviceable to me. I was much surprised to hear of the sudden departure of my Cousins from Waterford & concerned for the occasion of it. I wish much to hear how my poor Aunt continues, her loss would be great to her unprovided family: is Tommy settled in business in Dublin? I am obliged by thy account of Cousin Samuel I wish him well, whether Life or Death, please present my kind love to him: are all Cousin Jonathans family well? my love to them & Cousin Betty Haughton.
	I did not hear lately (except what thou writes) from Johny [sic] Pim, next first day come week is the day for our six-weeks meeting, expect then to have an opportunity of enquiring for him, a Person from this saw Joshua Fennells family very lately, & I did not understand but that they were all well.
	I was pleased very much with thy little Verse on the birth of my Nephew: it affected me with tears of joy to consider the satisfaction thou extracted from thy little family of Children, & an earnest wish arose that we might live under the same blessing that attended our Fore-fathers, & be sensible (with grateful Hearts) that all we receive is from the gracious Bounty of Divine Providence, & all our preservations owing to his Paternal care over us: to live under his notice & regard is Life indeed! 	I hope my Dear Mother is again restored to usual health: our friends here in general pretty well, many have been complaining. & many frightened by an unruly Mob breaking & stoneing [sic] their Windows to pieces, Robert Dudley, my Father, Brother Jos, Uncle Sparrows, Jo Woods, & many others exceedingly shattered for not illuminating them: such stones were thrown unto the houses as endangered their lives, with such violence, & so many of them: a large one ^fell^ into Betsy Dudleys Cradle, but the beautiful ^Babe^ was not in it (thro mercy) at the time; the Mob also threw fire into some houses, which burned some part of the Carpet on Robert Dudleys parlour floor. Our house escaped, though contrary to my expectation.
	I received a very affectionate letter from my Cousin E: Pike, which I intend to answer soon.
	My Husband joins me in dear love to thee & Mother, Brother & sisters.
		I remain thy dutiful	
			& affectionate daughter
				Margaret Grubb


