Dear Sir
Permit me to acknowledge with the sincerest thanks, your
favour of 17th: ult: whereby I have the pleasure to perceive my last Letter (tho late)
acceptable; Your Son's Establishmt: in Business, as well as Matrimony, Mrs:
Grubbs pleasing Encrease of Family, and Miss Debby's near Approach to a
happy Connection with a person, whose good Character I have been acquainted
with, and who meets with your Approbation; I in vain Lament the
deaths of Mrs. Carleton, Mr. Saml. Carleton & my Quondam neighbour (Mr. Jas
McConaughty) the kindness & Civilities shewn by the first, to my absent
Brothers, deceased Brother, and self, I shall (whilst I live) tho' she is no more,
remember with reall Gratitude; I hope your's and Mrs. Shackletons retirement
from your former hurry of Business, perfectly agrees with both; I hope Billy
Raynor's situation promises some future advancement, as I wou'd be sorry
he shou'd continue in his present Degree; I am glad to hear Patt: Rogers is
so well situated; The Expenses, Delays & Extortion of my Attorney in my
first Lawsuit in some Degree, deterrs me from Embarking in a second, yet
my having much more yet to do, witht. any hopes of it's being to be done but by
Suit, compells me to think of a second Voyage, wch. with you, I hope will be
less Dilatory, or Expensive, & in Order to Effectuate such, have changed my
Attorney, & determined to leave the Choice of a second to Alderman James
Hamilton, (who is Bror. & Executor, to our deceased Trustee, Dr. Hamilton.)
I must now fulfill your kind requests & my promise, by giving you the
following account of my Brother's Advancement, & progress into Life, Vizt.
Tom, first went out in 1774, under the Protection of Eyre Massey (Coll: of
the 27th: Regt. of Foot,) wch: Col: not having fulfilled his promises; Tom
quitt & joined the 28th: Regt:, where having fallen out with some Officers,
he was obliged to Quitt, and at the Battle of Long-Island he joined
the Hessians, and having distinguished himself particularly, was on
that

