Ballitore: 4/4 month 1786.

My dear Cousin,

	I am indebted to thine per my son -- I did not doubt his cordial reception at Stramore, nor the increase of thy attachment to him, when thou should have opportunity of observing the increase, which I trust he witnesses in both the root & branch of true religion. As he gave cousin Peggy a detail of his perilous journey homeward, & his safe arrival (through the kindness of Providence), I need not repeat it. He & I were 25th & 26th ultimate at our province-meeting at Mountrath. None else from this place attended there -- My wife did not think it proper for her, or Molly to go -- she thought they were hardly re-instated sufficiently in health -- besides, poor Nanny having had the ague now several weeks made it more difficult for them to leave home -- She has not yet got shut of it -- but we are in hopes is better, & likely to get over it -- The meeting at Mountrath was rather small; but I hope not devoid of the condescending notice of the Master of our assemblies -- Our two constant female ministers besure were there, & I believe well concerned in the exercise of their gifts -- Zacharias Dicks was also there, & appeared in an awful prophetic manner, intimating that the divine wrath was kindled, the sword unsheathed, on account of the abominations, which prevail in this land. Zacharias had been finely recruited, & joined Mary & Jane & others in the family-visit in that quarter; but reckoned himself then not so well as he had been. Our next Quarterly meeting is to be in Dublin 5th proximo -- the select meeting to be held the day preceding, as usual. At Mountrath I first heard of the translation of dear James Morton -- now I doubt not a member of the church triumphant in heaven, as he was (I believe) an honest, faithful, diligent member of the church militant on earth; where he drank of his cup of suffering, as his great Master had done before him, & as all those must do, who will be so honoured as to reign with him hereafter. The Apostle, the experienced apostle expressly declares, Yea, & all that will live godly in Christ Jesus, shall suffer persecution. Why then should those, whom the Lord hath visited & called, expect any other? They will & must be hated & despised by the world, being chosen out of the world, & having no fellowship with its spirit. We heard at Mountmelick that young Isaac Jackson was in a very weak, declining way -- his father was there, & at Mountrath -- seems to bear up wonderfully -- Thy brother Watson was at the meeting -- reported them pretty well (I think) at home -- Thy sister Abby rides out hither now & then -- was here lately -- I hope gains ground -- My wife at present of her best fashion -- was at Carlow lately -- Molly fine & stout again -- Debby Chandlee spent about a week with us some time ago -- She pleased me much by the pretty manner, in which she seemed to bear her pinching trial -- We have each of us our weak part in our composition -- but I think her an honest-hearted, sincere, religious woman -- By last accounts from Peggy Grubb, they were generally well -- her little Eliza, she hoped, was recruiting -- Peggy was giving suck to a beautiful little Margaret. Abraham & Lydia, with their sweet little flock, finely -- & business prospering with them; to which they are conscientiously attentive -- My Grandson & namesake is learning Latin amain -- We hear pretty often from Sally -- she is enjoying the reward of her faithful patience tried by the privation of Samuel Neale -- basking now in the sun-shine of his company, which she is so fond of. I expect she will come to next half-years meeting -- Samuel is not in so good a state of health as his friends wish him -- his constitution seems to fail -- but perhaps Divine Providence will mercifully lengthen out his valuable life -- his removal would be a capital loss -- Our poor Anna Taverner here remains confined to her bed, very weak & poorly -- but is now & then cheery & pleasant -- she is so very various, that her state, when this should reach thy hand, would probably be widely different from what it is, when this leaves me. So that a description of it seems impertinent -- But distressed, afflicted, pained & confined as she has been for such a length of time, her spirit is (I believe) supernaturally supported, not only by the immediate visitations of divine Love, but by the mysterious fellowship & spiritual sympathy of the Living --
	I note thine & our dear Peggy Pikes anxiety about parting -- its only now I think that thou feels the pinch of giving her away in marriage -- but surefly (if ye both live) ye will be likely to be often together -- thou may reside sometimes with thy son, & at other times with thy daughter -- & so enjoy the double satisfaction of being made two bands -- whereas now, when you are all crowded together, the gratification arising from a multiplied connexion seems in a great measure lost. I wish dear Cousin William & Peggy may continue to be under the gracious protection & direction of Infinite Wisdom, who knows best what is best for them, & where to plant them a family ordered by his counsel, & by their lives & conversations shewing forth his praise. They may perhaps see little in the light of Truth about the matter, & think that their migration is not of such consequence, that they should expect any extraordinary discovery in the case -- yet, if they act according to the best of their understanding, in that wisdom which dwells with prudence; are no way uneasy in their own minds, as to the steps which they are taking, & move in humble fear, feeling after the divine blessing on all their conduct; there is no doubt but all will be well. I wonder thou should apprehend that thou would be deserted as a correspondent by us here, on this, or any other account, except unavoidable inability -- Our attachment to thee is too long & too deeply founded to be disturbed by such causes; & the pleasure, which we extract from thy letters, (however thou may rate them), is not to be so readily given up by us -- My wife had a letter lately from her cousin Thomas Carleton dated from Kennett-Chester-county-Pennsylvania 23/12 month last. he writes that he is as well as can be expected in the 87th year of his age -- his hearing pretty good -- but his sight fails much -- When I have looked back over my past life, I have thought I might have mended in divers spots; but (through mercy) I am at times sensible of the divine hand being near, which looks, or winks at small faults -- I speak with humble reverence to him, that has been my preserver from my youth, & I hope will be to the last -- I rejoice in Friends company, when they come to see me; for I cannot ride much abroad of late -- My sons eldest daughter, named Hannah, was married some time ago, a hopeful young woman; her husbands name is William Pasmore -- she died last 3d month in child-bed, lying-in of her first, which is a son, & named Carleton Pasmore, seems a fine, hearty, thriving child -- Such are the communications of the good old man -- Molly received a letter lately from cousin Peggy Pike, to which she thinks it best to make reply at some other time, that we may not glut you with our chit-chat. We know not whether we rightly apprehend the occurrence at Youghal, which cousin Peggy mentions -- I believe there is something of convincement stirring in that place. And there is a Peggy Kirby there (I understand) servant in a friends family, who seems to be troubled with hysterick-fits -- speaks little in an ordinary way, sighs much, & sometimes breaks out in the style of preaching, &c -- James Abell wrote me of some extraordinary appearance, which she made just after the provincial meeting at Youghal -- & at the close of his letter contradicted a good part of it by later & more authentick intelligence, which he had received. So that we find Report magnifies objects; & the more distant the greater often is the exaggeration. And yet, it is humbly to be hoped that the eyes of mankind are rather opening in these & other countries, to see somewhat farther into the nature & spirit of true & genuine Christianity. The Lord Almighty (if it be his will) hasten the day of deliverance, which the generality of people have great need to experience, from the thraldom of sin, ignorance & superstition; that the place of his footstool, as well as of his throne, may become glorious! & may He by the effectual visitations of his holy Spirit cause, in a more general way, a return of the backsliding professors of his most precious Truth! We are all greatly pleased to hear that thy brother James is so finely recruited -- we wish he may take proper care & caution, lest he should have any relapse of his disorder -- Our dear love to him & his wife, when hast opportunity; & to our other friends & relations in Lurgan. Cousin R Pike has been in Dublin -- I wish a suitable place & way of livelihood may turn up for the worthy man & his amiable family -- Our hearty salutation to the good old patriarch (thy father:) I suppose he & John Conran & thy brother James may be now stirring about in the family-visit. May best help be with them! I am glad to believe & hope that John grows in his gift -- All our dear love besure attends thee, & all thine, & Molly Phelps. Remember us to Aby, & every branch of thy family, who know & love us -- I am, my dear Debby,
	thy truly affectionate Kinsman
		Richard Shackleton.
