CoalbrookDale 10th month 5th 1787
I salute my beloved Friend, his worthy wife and Family, in a degree of that Love that spreads over the whole creation wishing the welfare of all. Often have I thought of you, and wanted much to manifest my remembrance by my pen, but my inability prevailed both in mind and Body: and as Barriers in my way hath prevented me. I used to write much; But altho the will is present, the flesh is weak.  but what can I say but what thou knowest?  I can tell of the mercies of the Lord, of his gracious dealings and long sufferings with us: and of the efficacy of faith to the removing of mountains and bringing about marvellous Deliverances! Our hearts and Tongues ought, ever to be exercised in the glorious Theme, of everlasting praise, to him who still continues to bless his creatures, and delights to give them happiness!
      But to perform this incumbent duty with acceptance, our hearts should be sanctified, and our tongues anointed with the holy oil, that was poured upon the head of Aaron as a symbol, oh that the flood gates may of Heaven may be again opened, that the former and Latter rain may plentiously descend upon the tender plants; that Spring time and harvest may Succeed this long dreary winter, to the praise of the great Husband man, and the comfort of the faithful Labourers!
Our Dear Daughter Debby & Rebeca Young, has returned in saf[ety] and I trust in peace. She Shewed me thy Welcome Letter filled with good tidings of agreeable events.  of your geting, under the protection of Divine providence, safe to the quarterly meeting. And of worthy Joseph Williams giving up to Labour in the harvest. And of Samuel Neal strenghtened to put on the heavenly armour, and to wield the Sling & the Stone, guided by Divine power which, never fails to hit the mark.  Oh Blessed are they who ^give^ up readily to the holy call! I have to this day to bemoan my self for refusing in my very early youth to obey the heavenly vission [sic]! Oh that all may be warned for whom are we opposeing- but him who hath our Lives in his hand, - and can in a moment call us to judgement.
I expect thou hast heard of Mahatable Jenkins getting safe over the mighty Deeps to her family  And that the rest have been sailed several weeks ago, Save Rebeca Jones, who is still Labouring, & going for Westmorland & Cumberland. J [illegible from seal] Pemberton & some Friend with him are in Scotland. George Dilwin at London, visiting families  we have been favoured with a visit by worthy Sarah Beck, from Dover  she has been in Wales  also this week worthy John Lewis from Haverfordwest.  I am sorry to send such an imperfect scrawl _ but as thou desires it, thou must excuse it.  glad I am to hear from thee, and thy worthy family  and remain your affectionate Friend
Abiah Darby
[P.S.] my childrens Dear Love joins mine. We dont know where Dear Mary Ridgway & Jane Watson are, except about Devonshire.
My Dear Cousin R. Shackleton
I am pleased with this opportunity of telling thee thy last kind remembrance was received with gladness  as every mark. of having thy notice is encouraging  finding it at times hard getting along from  the little best life that seems to be allotted me  however I mean not to complain  well knowing that all the varied dispensations allotted are in wisdom  I will work together for good  if there is but on our parts- sufficient passiveness.
       My Dear companion & myself was helped through our late journey. I hope to some degree of satisfaction tho in many parts  where our lots was cast  the precious Truth seemed to have but little room & much excellent labour bestowed by our Dear American Friends  hath produced but little fruits  yet it may be like bread cast upon the waters  that may be found after many days  & was no doubt strengthning & reviving to a preserved remnant who are bound to the Law & Testimony 
I hope my Dear Friend - should thou come into this Land another year  the Dale will not be passed by  but that thou will bring with thee  that covering  which has taught us the truth of scripture language That as Iron sharpneth from so doth the countenance of a Man his Friend  I wish I had more room for my heart is often enlarged in Love towards thee & thine  wanting to be your Companion in often sitting like Mary at Jesus Feet  how necessary  how excellent is frequent retirement of this  thy much longer experience  gives thee stronger testimonys then can be the experience of thy affectionate cousin 
D. Darby
please to give my dear Love to each branch of thy family  also Austin [?] Sparks  from whom I shall be glad to hear - & any of our friends in thy freedom. Please to let us hear from thee  Sukey Applebys Love
I am pleased to hear of Dear A.J. improving state of health  please to give my love


