Second day
My dear Eliza
We got thy letter to
day & it was almost time for
it to come as it was the
first one we got since thou
left this except the one telling
us of thy safe arrival. This I
write that it may go tomorrow
if the Car goes, though as it seems
  inclined to snow I know not
whether it will or not. I have
no news to tell we are here
lonely enough, no one having
come near us since except
Edward on his way from Fassaroe.
my Mother has been
waiting for a fine day to go to
town but she has not with one

yet. Frederic & I went over to
Dalkey yesterday after meeting
as my Mother wanted to know
howe they were we found them
as lonely as ourselves Bessy & Mary
having gone to pay a visit at
Mrs Ryans and Mr Thomas is on
his way to Banbridge where he
is to be for six weeks, Mrs Henry
& Olivia are well & have got
Catherine out for company. Mr
Evans was there, they have begun
the alteration at the house so [underline]that[/underline]
I believe is all the information
I can give thee respecting them.
I have no news at all, there is
not much [insertion]use[/insertion] in sending any thing
of that kind to Dunlavin as it
generally travels faster there than
it does here. Sally Savage is still
very ill, the Doctor is uneasy at her
cough not getting better, the last
time I heard Martha told me
that she was better except her
cough, which I think seemed the
chief thing that ailed her, my
Mother I think has a bad opinion
of her, this very cold weather is
much against her. her poor Mother
is to be pitied. Would she were well
again! We have got a cow
which promises middling but perhaps
she may improve, she
is Dutch and Manliff says
is a very good kind he has
taken the calf to rear himself, the
cow does not care for grass at all but
will take a mash very well which
I give her every morning & evening
She also eats a proportionable quantity
of hay. poor thing she is miserable
thin and was not taken good care
of before we got her, I hope she may
turn out well. butter I know is a great
deal higher than it was but how can
I manage to sell ours to advantage.

We had a hunt here the other day & the fox ran
past the door and down the shrubbery & took refuge
in the green house where it was caught and followed
by about fifty ragamuffins whom Ely Wolfe let
in at the gate, but who did not do much damage
it was not in thy part of the green house that it
took refuge. My Mother bids me say that she spoke
to Peggy Wolfe who is willing and ready to go when
sent for. She also intends to send what thou wrote
for. We have got Mrs Trollope's Paris & the Parisians
it seems an amusing book tho I have not read
much of it yet as it only came on seventh day.
the little frock which thou left me to make for

Fanny I have done nothing to, my Mother
thinks it not fit for this weather, and that it is
too flimsy for her entirely as carrying her in the
arms would fray it and tear it. Tell Lucy I have
got her frock washed but that is all I have done yet
it was lying a [insertion]long[/insertion] time in Werburgh st before I could
get it out but I hope she will soon have it now
with dear love to her, Frank & thyself believe
me thy affe Sister
Selina

Eliza Barrington
Dunlavin

