Ballitore 10th mo 19th 32
My dear Eliza
I received thy welcome letter
of the fifteenth, and yesterday a box of grapes
by R M Jacksons servant, which I did not
expect and which were very nice and pleasant,
thanks for them. we were disappointed
S Jacob did not come, she told me in her note
that she had been at the Glen and had seen
Manliff. I am glad he has got some way
of amusing himself, for indeed it is a tiresome
thing to be in bed day after day, thou
remarked that his spirits were pretty good
I hope they may remain so, I know it is hard
to be cheerful. has he got any new book. Does
he suffer much pain, thou did not tell whether
it was painful or not. How is my mother
I hope she is not cast down about M. I expect
time will make him quite stout again
My dear love to her and whenever she wishes
me home I am ready, the query sometimes
arises in my mind whether I ought not
to be at home helping you, I feel very
very pleasantly situated here at Betsy B's.
but not to too much so as to make me forget
home, give my dear love to Manliff and

tell him to cheer up.
R M Jackson & H Thacker were here on fourth
day night on their way to Waterford they left
this yesterday morning for Kilkenny, they are
going by short stages, we all joked Betsy B about
going too, so she set off at half past eleven
last night and I suppose will be at Waterford
before RMJ, so here we are very lonesome.
she had no intention of it when she got up
in the morning and went off in a great hurry
she asked me to go with her. I should have
liked it very well as she intends going round
by Clonmell on her way home, it would have
been pleasant to see Mary J there, but thought
it better not, you might say indeed I had
a mind to amuse myself, G Shackleton
asked me to go with him tomorrow, and
Sarah said she thought my Mother would
not have any objection, but I believe all
will not do, so adieu to seeing Clonmell this
time. Thou says I told thee nothing
of Moone, I dined there on fourth day
last with Sarah, & E Cole, it is a very
pretty place, the trees are greatly grown
since we were there and there are walks
made through them, the cottage is small

but as nice as it can well be. Eben has built
a kitchen not so near the parlour which is
a great improvement, he talks of building a
dining room, the parlour he has is too small
for that purpose, it is furnished very nice
he has a nice piano for Ellen, who seems
an[deletion]d[/deletion] agreeable, unaffected woman, Eben
looks as well as ever I saw him, and seems
very happy, he takes great pleasure in his little
daughter, and is as fond of joking as ever.
There is a niece of Ellen's with her a little
girl, she is very good and well behaved which
speaks well for E S as she brought her
up, it is true there is not much
vestige of old times, the house is all
turned into a mill, the only unchanged
thing is Eliza Poole who does not
seem at all altered, it is altogether a
pretty little spot. I am glad Polly is with
you give my love to her if I had gone to Waterford
I might have seen Gretta as it is at F Warings
Betsy B lodges. [deletion][/deletion] How didst thou find out about
the caterpillars, I thought it was the death head
moth but did not feel quite sure, I saw
a nice book at J Whites on Butterflies
which I would like to get if all our own
were in it, but they are not it is a new publication
Give my love to FW. I wish he was settled.

It is at E Coles Sarah is.
Sarah and I breakfasted this morning at Georges
we are to take tea with M Doyle who seems very feeble
I gave her thy message of love at which she seemed
much gratified. These last few days have been very
fine. Elizth. & I took one or two little walks so I hope
to go home quite well and stout, tell my dear Mother
that I am finely, again I say farewell and
write soon. Elizth sends her love to my Mother
& Eliza

Why did thou not tell me a little more in
thy letter about the [underline]speret[/underline], [deletion]and[/deletion] What is the
meaning of 'breaking potatoes on peoples heads'
I never heard of such an expression. Give
my dear love to Francis and Lucy do they
often go out to see you and sweet little Emy.
This is a fine day for the wedding art thou
in town the bridegroom elect was here some
day this week. with dear love to thyself and
Arthur who I suppose is very busy I am thy
affectnte sister Selina
[underline]Ah me! The course of true love never does run smooth[/underline]
6
Eliza Barrington
Glendruid
Cabinteely
Dublin

