Garrett Green 14 Febry 1813
Dear Cousin,
I am still constrained to make Self
the subject of communication. I have not been yet
made acquainted with the destiny of my essay,
which was forwarded from Waterford earlier in Novr..
by a vessel for London which met with no unusual delay.
I have received a Letter from J Johnson & Co dated "London Jany 7th 1813:
"We received your M. S. a few days ago, and shall take
"the earliest opportunity of putting it in the hands of a
"literary friend, and as soon as we have obtained his opinion
"upon it, we shall do ourselves the pleasure of writing to you
"again. We remain & J J&Co. Expecting the result of this
review, I have not determined upon any decisive plan
for the future; but I can not waver much longer,
as the house that now shelters us is set, & possession
to be given on or before the 25th of next month.

I have received very friendly & voluntary offers from
my expected successor, of strong letters of recommendation
to some of his acquaintances in Dublin; on these I build
considerable hopes, in addition to other documents I have
to produce: While my former patron Sir Wheeler Cuffe
continues in this country I do not feel at liberty to use
much exertion about my own affairs, especially as he
has extended the limit for my original stipend, until the
latter end of June if I should continue so long without
suitable employment. Should I obtain a situation in Dublin
not requiring my entire time, I may probably accomplish
his business for an adequate allowance; as he has
heretofore spent as much time there as at home, & may in
future follow the same mode. I propose becoming an
inmate with with my old friend Mary Chambers, should
She have a vacancy when I go to seek my fortune;
we have corresponded on the subject - the family need
not be removed unless a prospect offer of establishment.
A few days since I saw an advertisement

encouraging Candidates to offer for filling the department
of Librarian to the Dublin Institution; the appointment was
flattering, £150 per Annum & some etceteras, the necessary
qualification I knew not, however I was persuaded
against my own conviction to make an application by
Letter to Dr Cleghorn, not having procured & laid before
him testimonials of moral character & education, &
hopeless of complying with their expectations of
security to the Amount of £2000. I met (as I
suspected) with merited silence for my presumption,
which does not mortify me - perhaps
it is all for the best - the duties by
what I have since learned, are very
restrictive & possibly above my abilities to perform.
Has your Elizabeths visit been prolonged in Munster
if so I suppose it would be particularly desirable as
I heard that Cousin M Grubb's daughter Margaret was
married & settled in Dublin. My affectionate regards
to friends & relations about you
I am dear Mary yours sincerely
William Rayner

Mrs Leadbeater
Ballitore
Castledermot
ansd. 19th

