E.D. in Reply to R.T. Skipton 2 month 6th 1763


Dear Cousin,--Thy very acceptable lines came safe to hand. I can not fully express how much I feel obliged to thee for thy tender regard to a poor creature sunk in my own opinion below thy notice. Tis an obliging condescension in thee to purpose commencing a correspondence with me, and will be always gratefully remembered. Sorry, indeed, should I have been, if thou hadst entertained a thought that I should have been displeased with any part of thy letter. Those passages which strike the most home to the source of my trouble (I mean my own misconduct) were not unwelcome; and by painful experience, I can witness to the truth of thy just remarks. To walk in a path of inward, as well as outward affliction, has been long my lot, nor have I any expectation of much alteration for the better, in this life; bereft, at times, of the flatterer hope, my inward situation is perfectly unknown to any person. I am obligated to appear serene, when my poor heart is torn with conflicting passions. I have not a sufficient foundation to support myself under daily trials, and my attention too much taken up and engrossed with the cares of this world. I seldom get to Meetings, my husband being unwilling that any business, though even so struggling, should be neglected on that account: I have involved my poor children, too, in many difficulties, trials, and perplexities: -- may the Lord have mercy and compassion on them who are innocent of my transgressions, and direct their feet into the right path I have forsaken & turned away from, which has cost me my peace of mind. Thou art a father of children, too daughters [sic]. Tis my desire they may be preserved from falling into the like error, and take warning from me, who have not had one hours solid satisfaction since I married. I once thought no power on earth capable of drawing me so far aside; secure & confiding in my own imaginary strength, I dared at first to dally with the temptation, and I am convinced, by sad experience, that the more trifling digression from our known duty is a very great advance to the contrary. 
        I take notice of thy observation, that few who have been guilty of my crime, are ever of much service after in the Society. Tis not likely we should; the very nature of the offence and the consequences attending it, exclude from a moral possibility of it; what right have we to expect miracles to be wrought in favour of the disobedient, who were knowingly so; who have neither ignorance, nor negligent education to plead for excuse? 
        Dear Cousin, on perusing what I have written, I cant but think it may appear a little particular, that I should use freedom in my first letter to a person I have never seen; but I am encouraged, and as it were called upon to almost unlimited frankness by thine, which shows thee to be a sincerely wellwishing [sic] and sympathizing Friend, and in some measure sensible of my condition. Permit me to request the continuance of thy tender regard to me. My husband, children and self are mercifully favoured with good health, though it is a sickly time here with many. William Longmere [?] of Leeds, lately died; his death was in the last weeks [sic] paper, which was the first account we had of it. My dear love attends thee, thy wife, and children, from thy affectionate kinswoman Elizabeth Dale.
