Ballitore: 2/7 month 1782.

My dear Cousin,

	I have always told thee (& I am persuaded thou believes me) that I extract a particular pleasure from thy correspondence. I was not without a thought of writing to thee since my return, but an emigration from home, & the payment of some epistolary demands from the other side of the water stood in my way. The kindness & partiality of my Friends to me both here & there is indeed exceedingly great, & I rejoice to feel that it does not puff me up, but rather abases me in humble gratitude to the Preserver of men, by whose especial Grace & Mercy it is, that I am any thing, if I am any thing that in any little degree approaches to Good -- I with my companions James Lecky & James Abell left London 1st ultimate & (through the kindness & safe conduct of Gracious Providence) were in this place 8th -- We lay by, an intermediate First-day of the week, at Leighton, the place of the Residence of Mary Brooke, whom James Abell had a mind to visit, being a particular friend of hers -- That great & good woman seems to go on wading under complicated afflictions -- She is in a very poor state of health herself, subject to Scobretick & hysterick complaints, her only child a daughter (a very pretty young-woman) in a very precarious situation as to health, her daughters husband (a valuable young-man, John Grant) seemed some time ago far gone in a decay, told us he was mended in that respect, but has had dreadful work with a sore leg, &c. where the disorder was supposed to settle, & is likely to be lame for life. And more than all these, the care of the churches which cometh daily upon her (the mother), the too general declension of our religious society, & the falling-away of one or other of the little flock, which she had been instrumental to gather in that place, as well as her controversies in word & writing with the opposers of Truth in those parts. But on the other hand, no doubt but secret, invisible, effectual support is administered in the time of need -- if the well-minded have distresses which the world is a stranger to, so they have also consolations which the world knows not of -- Every soul knows its own bitterness -- but again, no man intermeddles with its joy -- We took shipping at Holyhead, were but about 7 or 8 hours between that place & the harbour of Dublin -- I did not go off the deck (being day-time) till we left the ships. Cousin Robert Grubb & his company, who went a little while before us in the same vessel (which returned & took us) were 50 hours on their passage between Holyhead & Dublin -- I was not very sick at sea -- I was advised in London of the childrens having been inoculated -- I heard on landing that the youngest was very ill -- when I got home, there seemed hopes of its recovery -- but alas! it died 12th ultimate -- The Parents have felt as it might be expected persons of their sensibility would feel in such circumstances, yet having acted for the best, I hope they settle in a quiet composure & patient resignation to the Divine Will. I never that I know of recommended the practice of Inoculation, but I did not dissuade from it -- I stood pretty much Neuter -- & if in so doing I have erred I have been affected with very painful sensations on this occasion. My poor wife, who never approved of the practice, has nevertheless shared deeply in our sufferings on the privation of this infant, who seemed the finest, sturdiest, fairest of the three, & was thriving apace, when he received this mortal infection, smiling up in the Surgeons face when he communicated it to him with the lancet, as much as to say, I am now going to unmixed happiness -- the other two had the disorder rather heavily, but appear to have pretty well got over it -- At Tottenham, Sarah Pim was of her better fashion, & Betsy, who has been much followed by a pain in the stomach, somewhat recruited -- the rest of them I think as usual -- Hannah continues at Norwich & gives general content to her employers & their connexions, which is a delicate point. her principal & most intimate friend there (I understand) is the Step-mother of her little ward -- Sally Birkbeck was bravely recovered, to the joy of her family & friends -- she is a very agreeable woman -- Samuel Spavold, Robert Walker, John Storer, Catherine Phillips, Ruther Follows were at the Yearly Meeting, with many other worthies -- I mention those, as being known to thee -- Some sittings of the Meeting were a good deal engaged about a book of Extracts which has been compiling -- it occasioned some dry talk, & speeches abounding more in sound than sense, more jingle of bells than flavour of fruit -- but in the main I think it was a favoured solemnity, & I am not discouraged from going again some time, if Life & health & ability & preservation be mercifully continued -- But thou probably may be informed more minutely by thy Countrymen John Conran & Joseph Grubb, whose company was very agreeable, & who I believed were pleased with their Tour -- Pray, is John yet admitted as a Minister with you? I had the pleasure of seeing thy sister Abby at Moat -- but had not opportunity of much conversation with her -- I also saw thy brother Watson there -- I can have no objection, my dear friend, to your Inquiry into the situation of thy poor, dear, aged mothers (my dear old family friends) affairs -- on the contrary am glad of it -- She imposed secresy [sic] upon me, but I made no secret of them to her children -- for which I bore many a scold from my gay old-woman -- I think it best to hand thee her Will herewith -- I would rather not be mentioned Executor in her Will, for reasons which I may tell thee when I shall see thee, but do not choose to commit to writing -- The inclosed Will witnessed by myself & wife explains how far I am concerned in her affairs -- I suppose she would have no other Witnesses to it -- I drew it as exactly to her mind as I could -- Atkinson promises me the money lent to him next tenth month -- when I get it I purpose to pay in thy mothers part -- As to the money lent to Thomas Wily, I endeavoured to get her part separately, but could not succeed. I know not whether any, or what part of it will ever be got. I have taken some pains & been at some expense about it, but have yet got nothing -- I cannot say what George Newson (who is the acting person in Cork) is doing in those affairs -- Perhaps Joseph Garratt could inform you -- Thy Mothers [paper torn] bond of William MccConnell & Miles Atkinson to me for 200. And thy Mothers 200 lies in a Promissary [sic] Note of Thomas Wily to me for 1300. I wait an opportunity of paying her 6 one years Interest on the former due 5/3 month last -- For my part I think theres a very dull prospect attends my Note -- I did as well for thy mother as I did for myself -- but it seems that was bad enough. This is all I have in trust of her affairs -- What other monies I had of hers in my hands I paid her, & gave a particular account of it to Cousin Abby, & of the transactions which her mother employed me in -- I am willing to give any proper acknowledgments for the above sums put out for her, but as I had no interest or end in it, but purely to serve & oblige her, I would not choose to have myself or my representatives made liable to any loss which may happen. It is sufficient to me to bear my own.* Dont mistake me. I have entire confidence in all that are concerned, who are now living: but as thou justly remarks, All our lives are uncertain. There are some papers in my custody belonging to thy mother, which I found among Sister Carletons papers, I suppose depicted by the former with the latter. There are none of any consequence except thy bond to thy mother for 100, & thy brother Watsons Promissory Note to her for 100 -- The bond which thou mentions to have been given by thy Father Christy & thy husband to thy Father does not appear -- & I know nothing of it.
	We have had an epidemical disorder among us here, & in many other parts -- several of our families in this place are now labouring under it. Many in my sons family have been ill, & Molly Shackleton at present indisposed in ours -- so hope Cousin Peggy Pike will give her a longer day for answering her last acceptable Letter -- I purpose to forward the Letter to Abby Wright by first opportunity -- I am sorry the people among you are not more for Peace, but seem to prefer to it (what is very extraordinary) even an unsuccessful war -- I hope in due time your new Justice of Peace will be set in his proper place, & that will hardly be the Preachers gallery -- I think our friends Thomas Dobson & John Foster now engaged in visiting your province are of the right sort, ministering in the simplicity from the ability received. They must have a laborious time of it, in the present state of things -- When they come into your coasts, please present them with the affectionate Salutation of me & my house -- I suppose Mary Ridgway & Jane Watson will now be soon returning to Ireland -- I heard nothing I think but well of them in England. I believe they have met with best help on their journey. They with Robert Valentine from America lodged with us at John Eliots -- Roberts principal concern was to visit this country -- he seems a stout old man, had lived in the County Carlow, left it about ten years of age & migrated to America. -- My wife is in middling health, joins me & our children here in dear love to you all, & to our dear friends in Lurgan. We wish all in their respective allotments to centre [sic] deep, dig through the rubbish, & know their religious foundation to be in Christ Jesus our Lord. So will they be enabled to stand in the day of trial, & in the end to obtain the victory over all their enemies, the last to be destroyed is Death.
	I am, my dear Cousin Debby,
		very affectionately thine
			Richard Shackleton

* I send an accountable Receipt inclosed.

P.S. I am almost out of Franks for thee. Please forward the inclosed, having first sealed it.

