My dear Cousin,                                                Ballitore: 12/12 month 1778.
			Yesterday I was favoured with thine, which was very acceptable. I am obliged to thy brother James for remembering me with the paper of Proceedings. I doubt not but Friends there have had a good deal of trouble, & been concerned to keep in the middle path of right Judgment. The desire of my heart is that our brother (James) may be strengthened for every good word & work, & may be as a pillar in the house, erect, sound & beautiful, able to bear the weight which may necessarily be upon it, when other Pillars shall be removed from earth to heaven from a State of Trial to a state of Rewards, from a state of warfare to a state of uninterrupted Peace.
	Poor John has been about ten days with us, he is very thin, his appetite & spirits middling, we think he does not lose ground, he only goes to school, by way of variety, when he pleases, & we endeavour to cheer & divert him at home. My wife orders him Conserve of Roses in New-milk, in the morning, & Conserve of Rue at night. he sleeps in a closet near my daughters & rests well, has some sweats in a morning, but not violent, is regular in his body, & upon the whole we hope & expect will continue to recruit - If any symptoms to the contrary should appear, care will be taken to advise thee. But I trust it will be consistent with the DivineWill to spare thy children to thee in mercy. Should Infinite Wisdom decree otherwise, what can we do, but take the cup at his hands, bitter indeed of itself, but he can sweeten & make it a cup of blessings.
	I have been about a week from home in company with James Gough, Joseph Inman & Joseph Williams (Cousin Sam was so kind to accompany me) We were at Moat, Mountmelick & Edenderry meetings, & at the funeral of Samuel Strangman - I believe on the whole we had as much satisfaction as we expected - Moat is a poor spotsome faint struggle for life at Edenderry  at Mountmelick I hope the Divine Visitation is operating, & will operate for good. I lay a night at thy brother Watsons: thy mother & the family bravely - but it is a watery country & wretched roads  thy mother seems almost tired of it. Joseph Wilson & family arrived at Dublin some time ago from England - There has been talk about your countryman Billy Freeman courting Olivia Russell - I suppose it is a point agreed - Jack Watson has made one presentation with Dinah Deaves - Tom Simmons & Nancy Clibborn to be wed next third-day. My son expects to get his certificate of Licence next Fourth day at Carlow - Lydia & her sister are to have an auction of their goods at Edenderry next second-day, & as soon as convenient after remove to Dublin, there to remain till my son & Lydia consummate their intentions, the wedding to be at Molly Pembertons, from thence to come pretty directly (I suppose) hither - My wife (thou may be sure) is very busy, making necessary preparations & alterations: besides our Quarterly Meeting is to be at Carlow 25th, 26th, & 27th instant & falling in the idle time, there will be like to be a great deal of company. My wifes health is rather precarious, she is obliged to use a great deal of care & caution - The children pretty well, only that Debbys face is in an uncertain way, better, & worse again - When we heard last from Peggy, they were tolerably there - Jenny Fullers side but poorly - the rest of the family pretty well. I understand that Saint James Doyle is translated at last, & that Samuel Spavold was present with him when ^a while before^ he departed  I suppose Thomas Carrington is with Samuel in those parts. I believe Thomas to be an honest-hearted, zealous friend, but seems to be attended with weakness, & really he appeared to me to be very singular in many respects, & out of the line which I had observed many worthies to be led in, respecting their going about in their services - Yet, if Life attends, Life is the Crown: & if the Master speaks approbation, or excuses, it would ill become us to blame or accuse. For my part, I am still afraid of meddling with those edged Tools (the Ministers), remembering the Caution, Touch not mine anointed, & do my prophets no harm. I would rather leave the necessary disciplining of any of that class to such solid, wise, judicious Elders as - I will not say thy Father, lest I should seem to flatter, or should offend him. I doubt not but honest, old James Moreton is a valuable friend: & I have long had an high opinion of the Judgment & wise conduct as an Elder, of my brother Joseph Grubb. Cousin Sam Carleton lodges with Jonathan Haughton as it was not convenient for us to accommodate him - he gets his health in a middling way, is pretty often with us - he seems to have given over courting now for good - Poor Hannah Haughton (Benjamin) has got into a very low spot these several weeks past. She is like one that will not be comforted. I believe it is a bodily disorder which affects her spirits, & collaterally her mind. She was a good-natured, affectionate body to others when in distress, & has a good deal of attention paid to her by her friends & neighbours - Ruth Inman hurt her leg by a fall on the stairs some time ago - she was better, but I fear hardly yet quite well. Molly Ridgway has taken a house in Mountmelick - I fancy has all, or most if not all her children & grandchildren with her. her troubles continue. I know not where her companion Jenny will fix her residence. I suppose she is as yet mostly at her brother Harrys: which many of her friends do not like, & she talks as though she did not mean to stay there longer than to settle some affairs - Aby says that thy mother rode to meeting at Rathangan last fifth day on horse-back: he was at the meeting  All our dear love attends thee & all your house. John presents his love & duty to you all, where proper.
			I am my dear Debbys truly affectionate friend & kinsman										Richard Shackleton.
			[address]
				To
		  Deborah Christy

P.S. This is my last Frank
13th - John I hope gains ground.

