75.
While on that cheek the hungry reptile preys,
And the frail flesh drops from the mouldering bone,
In stony horror fix'd, thy haggard gaze
Would not one feature of Iolas own!
Thou Power Supreme, of holy Love & Truth,
Who 'midst thy chastenings mixes Mercy dear,
Forgive the errours of unguarded youth,
And grant his soul that peace it wanted here.
Grant him a mansion in thy place of rest,
Oh thou that hearest the penitential prayer!
And, Oh! Forgive frail Nature's fond request,
When I entreat that mansion I may share.
The Poplar.
"Farewell ye fields, so fresh & fair,
In Summer's glowing beauties drest,
My weary age resigns your care,
Which oft has pleas'd, & oft opprest.
Farewell, thou Garden, whence the breeze
So frequent wafts the rich perfume;
Rear'd by my hand, farewell, ye trees,
Which now with Autumn's promise bloom
And you, ye Natives of the shade,
Who wave on high the graceful head,
My hand your tender fibres laid
Where now your ample roots are spread.
Thou mansion simple, yet belov'd,
Receive thy Master's fond farewell,
Here sweet, domestick joys I prov'd,
Here sorrow bade my bosom swell.
So long endear'd, these scenes I leave
with pensive, yet with willing mind,
And social joys shall pleasures give
To equal pleasures left behind."
The good man ceas'd- his steps he turn'd,
His steps involuntary move,
And now he paus'd, & now he mourn'd,
And fondly eyed the infant grove.
For there a stately Poplar rose,
Smooth was the bole, & green the bough,
Remembrance waked a father's woes,
And tears unbidden swiftly flow.
"Cold is thy heart, my William dear,
And low in dust thy form is laid,
Thou saw thy Poplar flourish here,
But ne'er rejoiced beneath it's shade.

76
When dire [insertion]X[/insertion] Disease, with spoiler's hand
Had marr'd his blooming, guiltless prey,
When Death obey'd the stern command,
And rent my age's hope away.
Twas then I 'spied thy little Tree,
Paternal tears the plant bedew'd;
I watch'd its growth, & thought of thee
While Spring the bursting buds renew'd.
What though no more beneath the shade,
At evening I shall linger here,
Yet never may the axe invade
These boughs, to sacred Memory dear!
Dost thou approach, my Mary mild?
Then let me clear my clouded brow;
I yet can boast a duteous child,
My Mary loved, that child art thou."
[insertion]X[/insertion] The only Son of the venerable Mourner died of the small pox at 12
years of age.

