My dear Cousin,                                                Ballitore: 15/1 month 1778.
		I herewith send thee my Receipt, & grateful acknowledgement of thy Remittance. Thy letter was very acceptable: thou art very welcome to throw out thy sentiments respecting my children. I am sure their welfare is near thy heart, as the happiness of thine is to mine. I concur with thee in judgement that our plain young-men act an inconsistent part in choosing gay & dressing girls for wives, & the decay of a meeting may be very justly referred to such improper laying of the foundations of the families which constitute it. I doubt not but I have repeatedly told thee my mind about my sons proposal. Lydias finery was neither pleasing (I believe) to him nor me. It was not that tinsel which captivated his affections: he thought she was brought rightly before his view. I believed she was one of the visited children, I had felt a particular nearness of spirit to her: I knew not but my son might have been rightly directed, as I was well assured he sought after best intelligence; & I hoped that if she became one of our family, she would soon model her appearance pretty much to our liking. Perhaps we were all in the wrong, but we acted for the best. We were defeated & disappointed & rejected, yet we are so far from either repenting, or resenting, that we would think no shame of renewing our humble suit, & risking the disgrace of another denial. I perhaps think differently from some others respecting these matters. With respect to America too, I am jealous lest some of our active zealous friends there have not been too sanguine for British Government. Even dignified personages in our Society, when from under the fresh anointing, & meddling with matters out of the line of their proper business, may err in judgement, mistake their duty, & bring on themselves troubles which the Great Controller of human events would perhaps have made a way for their escaping, if they had cast their care upon him wholly, confided implicitly in him, & only maintained in simplicity the testimony which we are called to bear against all Wars & Fightings, without busying themselves concerning the Right & Wrong of the Contest. Let that be as it may, our Brethren in affliction claim our tender & true Sympathy, our prayers & petitions when enabled to offer them. For indeed the time of trial may be nearer to this land than we are aware of: & all the fortitude which we can procure from the author of all good, & the strengthening unity of our Friends may be little enough in the day of general calamity. I have not since heard from E: H:, nor much about her daughter. I wrote to her plainly & closely in answer to her letter. I am afraid lest the Sin of Instability which so easily besets there should still prevail. But perhaps something good continues to be at work, though I do not hear of it. I wish the sister of John Greer, whom thou mentions, (what is her name?) may prove steady. We greatly want some of those Stones to be made children, in this day of Backsliding. I am obliged to thee for considering me about putting out the money. I expect in some time to have a small matter to put out at legal interest, but am not yet ready, nor can I now precisely say when I shall be ready; so that my contribution in that way is rather uncertain, & not to be depended on. John Grubb is gone for England to solicit once more for Sally Pim: its thought that he stands a good chance. Isaac Simmons has returned unsuccessful.. Sam Pim & Peggy Penrose, daughter of George Penrose, are about to be married, & William Penrose of Waterford (son of Francis) & Rachel Nevins are bound to the same port. Lawrence Brennan of Clonbullock & Elizabeth Williams of New Garden were before our last Meeting. Sister Carleton is better in health, though confined to the house, & moaning the Loss of thy Mother, whom Abby took from her this week. My wife is middling, the children bravely (through mercy.) Aby gone to the funeral of a youth, son of Benjamin Doyle, who died of a decay. When thou sees John Conran, ask him whether he received my wifes letter, & has heard any thing about a gardener for us. Also: Please forward the inclosed, having first sealed it.
		All our dear love attends you all (Cousin Sam Carletons included.)
					I am, my dear Deborah,
								thy affectionate Friend
								    		& kinsman
									          Richard Shackleton
