Clonmel 16th of 10th mo. 1790
My dear Mary
I thought I ought to inform thee how we got
on since we left Ballitore, as probably thou wast anxious
to know. & except just that, I do not know that I shall
have any thing else to say worth thy acceptance, for I
am a worthless creature, I feel myself so. We got on from
Carlow to Kilkenny to Breakfast without stopping &
from thence to Anner Mills to Dinner, only that we
fed the horses at 9 Mile house, & from thence to Clonmel
all which I bore well & without being much fatigued
& am now, I think, very well. My dear friends here in
Clonmel that I have seen are particularly civil to me;
& doubly kind to me on thy account, no doubt, my very
& ever dear Mary. I am much indebted to thee in that
as well as many other respects. I breakfasted at the School
this morning with my dear Betsy Grubb - what a circle
of amiable women in that house - I do admire the
English Lasses. Ah poor John Grubb. Why didst
thou not tell me of his affair before. Saml. Neale -
highly approves of ours, I hear, & that pleases me much.
he is not to be here at this meeting; Edwd. Hatton & Jas
Abell, with several more that I have not yet seen, are
come. I have been busy at Saml. Stores to day where he
was

was closely employed till near 4 O Clock buying Corn, I pd.
close attention to the method, so that, I hope, I shall improve.
Sally just now came in & desired me to give her
love to thee. I gave thy Journal, Papers & letter to Nancy
Grubb this morning in private, she is still our very steady
friend. Peggy poorly still, she sent down for me to
the parlour to sit a bit with her this Evening, & do think
from her description of how she does be affected she is as
my Sister Harper used to be on such occasions, cowardly
& too much terrified, so that those who join her & seem to
pity her a great deal may not be the fittest to be much
with her. I wd. like dearly to hear from thee, but I
dont deserve a letter - farewell
Wm. Leadbeater.

Mary Shackleton
Ballitore.
Wm. Leadbeater
Clonmel: 16/10 mo: 1790
Ansd. -21/-

