My dear Cousin,                                                 Ballitore: 6/10 month 1776-
	The reason that I do not write oftener to thee, is because when I converse with thee I want to be in my best mood. At present I am unfit to entertain such good company by a peculiarity of circumstances attending my present situation. however, as thy letter to my son received this day argues a sort of female Longing, I just put pen to paper to relieve thee. In the first place, thy son is (through mercy) well & hearty, is taken care of in every respect, & occasions no extraordinary trouble. When he wants clothes they will be got at Athy, when they require to be let out, care will be taken when they want to be repaired, care will be taken. I think his fond mother need not be uneasy about him, we love him, we attend to him, he learns well, & I hope will turn out to satisfaction. Thy mother is here, fine & cheery, my son & his sister Debby gone to visit their sister Peggy. I believe he is this day at Cork, at the Province-meeting: I believe Debby did not leave Clonmel, her face very indifferent. Peggy I suppose pretty well making allowances for female-matrimonial-occasional complaints. her situation very comfortable & agreeable. I believe Sam & she are now at Cork. Sister Carleton & her family dine with us day [sic], were at meeting, & are of their best fashion. My wife is middling, myself was not well yesterday but through mercy better to day. We hear Anstis Sparkes is not dead, but her sister Betsy. I am concerned for Thomas Greers manifold trouble, which from thy letter to my son I conjecture must attend him: however, he is a wise man, & doubtless will find a way to make his escape. We are pleased to hear that Joseph is yet alive, & better in his health: he is a singular youth, may he be singularly favoured! There is really something uncommon about him.
	Thy mother says she received the things which thou sent her, & is obliged to thee. All our dear love attends you all. John was about writing a letter to some Molly or other, but he has lost it, so she must give him a longer day. All our dear love attends you.
Very affectionately thine
Richard Shackleton.
