Settle 11/9 mo 1778
I have waited my dear Mary for
some weeks, for a suitable oppertunity, of acknowledgding
myself obliged: for thy welcome epistle and thy
acceptable pieces of Poetry, and now my dear the
wish'd for conveyance offers, and I find myself
greatly inclined to accept of it; yes my inclination
would induce me to believe this Scrawl will afford
thee some entertainment or rather, permit me to
say; my partiallity for Deborah, and perhaps if
I was not so conscious of my own deficiencies I should
not so far fail in the attempt. however I am
certain, whatever estimation I may rate my poor
performanceat it will meet with a better reception
than it deserves. Has not my friend
before this period, accused her D Birdbeck of negligence
if thou hast judges from my silence; sensible I am
their is too much cause; and had I not a plausible
excuse for defering answering, thy obliging favor., I
should also esteem myself culpable of that failing. but

but bespared this omission proceeded from no other
reason than waiting for a Frank, as I trust
neither ingratitude nor forgetfulness of my kindest
friends or acquaintance, ever hath or ever will be harboured
in my breast. no, I hope to cultivate qualities
of a more amiable nature; tho' their growth may be
small, and their foundation upon such barren ground
that I am afraid, that it will be long, very long
before any fruits [insertion]will[/insertion] appear.
I am my dear, acquainted with Sarah Pim
and her kind daughter. I admire Sally mightily
I think John Grubb must be a man of extraordinary
abilities to prevail over such an accomplish'd
Woman, to leave Father & mother with the rest of
her endearing connexions, to cleave to her Husband
in another Land. pray dont you look upon its a
very great acquisition? I suppose you will see
John Pim jun.r as he his gone for the Gentle Eliza:
Please to inform me if James Abel has renewed his
address; I have observed these delib[insertion]e[/insertion]rations often forminate
favorably to the young Men.

I am very sorry my dear Mary to hear thou hast been
so poorly, and hope ere now thou art greatly improved
dost thou not think a journey into our Land would
be of service. I do believe our fine air in Yorkshire,
would prove of advantage; and perhaps restore
thee to thy usual state of health which at the best
i am afraid is not so good as could be desired.
I wish thy Sister Deborah and thee would be so
so to pay us a visit; I expected when I
I should before this, have experien[unclear][/unclear]
pleasure; and really Mary, tho thou art so partial
to Ballitore, I have a notion thou wouldst admire
our Country. Our fertile Hills, Vales, Caverns & Cascades
I fancy, would mightly please thy taste; however if
thou art fond of Romantic scenes & natural Curiosities
We have besides a many places will adapted for
contemplation that thou mightest indulge thy Poetick
Genius, without being molested. And nothing my
dear girl should be wanting that was in my power
to render our habitation agreeable, if thou wouldn
favor us with thy company!, But I doubt we have
no inducements sufficient, to influence thee to leave
thy affectionate Parents, for to take an excursion into
England even for a few Months. Thou answer Mary I
parted with my nearest connexions to visit Ballitore and if
thou hadst resolusion to Cross the Sea, I trust thou wouldst be

excuse when I assure thee, its with a desire to render it
is the more satifactory. My love to every one of your
family that I am acquainted with. Excuse errors, and believe
me, to be thy sincere, affectionate & obliged friend
Pim Nevens desires his love
amply rewarded for the fatigue thou wouldest undergo.
Please to give my love to thy Cousin Fullers. My Dear
Mother has been from home a few weeks if she knew of
my writing I dare say she would send her love. We have
had no intelligence from Tottenham lately, I suppose you
have constant. Thou seest I have wrote a long [unclear][/unclear]
whether its tedious thou must judge, if so, I know tho will
D Birkbeck junr
Mary Shackleton
Ballitore
D Birkbeck
Settle 11/9 of mo 1778
Answer's 27/14 mo: 79

