Bride Street Novr. 28th
1783
I received the assurances of my Wm's friendship with
infinite satisfaction & am quite convinced of your
truth & sincerity, as you may be of mine; if you
had saw me a wednesday you wd. have laugh'd
at me - I was quite out of temper with myself
& with all the world & you, & so ill that I could
not go out with the family; when 8 OClock
struck a rap came to the Door, I bounced & for
a moment thought it you & when I thought of
my mistake I became so uneasy that I went
to bed; I believe it was 12 when I went to sleep
when at half past one I was alarmed with the
cry of fire, when I opened the window the blaze
was so great that it frighten'd me out of my senses
altho' the fire was in the close I have not been
well since that fright & stays much at home
for fear of cold & the only pleasure I have is in thinkg.
of you & looking over your kind favours; I intend
writing to your Sister next week shall I enclose one to
you. The reason that I objected to you writing on -

monday was on acct. of the Post coming in so late, but any
day & every Post will be most pleasing to me, mind that
we are to have a great Drum this Evening & are engaged
every Day next week; but what are parties to me when
you are absent the most insipid of all places I am
condemn'd for being stupid of late, but who can be sprightly
when the mind is not at ease - I have got a Pink
Sattin Gound & Petticoat & a Coeen Do. there is Dress for you
& I intend sending the fashions to your Sister - no more
at present from your sincere friend - G. Kelly -
Bride St. Decemr. 6th 1783 -
I recd. yours my dear Wm. with a mixture of pleasure &
pain for heaven's sake what have you heard that can make
you try to forget me, yet you say you cannot ask your
own heart is it just for you to try if it is your wish -
may you be able to effect it though I am to be wretched
for life I think that I could bear to be unhappy were it
to contribute to your happiness you say that you will
have hopes while I am disengaged that is while I have
life except to you; I never make a promise except to
you & that was the 1st of Febry. last & I still hold it sacred
& if I can never will brake it let the consequences be - -
what it will - You are free & may you be happy with one
that loves you more if you can find such a one (but
memory begone for thoughts distract me) On my father's
tenderness I have great hopes as I am sure that he wd.
wish to see me happy & if I dont mistake his Declaratns.
on
on all occasions wd. contribute all in his power to make
me happy - dont think I am in the least angry with
you for it is farr from my mind I pity more than blame
you as I judge you by myself - I have got shut of
a very troublesome Visitor in the name of a Lover
Mr. Phillips. A Sunday I did not go to church he came
to visit me & made a most moving declaration of his love
& in the most urgent manner begg'd my heart, & liberty
to ask for me I strove to put him off in the best manner
that I could but it was in vain he must ask my father
I was at last obliged to tell him how sensible I was
of the honour that he did me & wd. always have the
greatest respect for him but that both my hand
& heart were engaged to another & hoped that he wd.
not speak of the matter to any of the family he went
off in great displeasure & in wrath & I have not heard
of him since - There was a great Party at William's
tuesday last 26 supped there, we did not leave it
untill 3 OClock we were very merry & had a great
singing, I beg that you'll burn my Lrts that no
one hereafter may see my folly let me once more
assure you of my tenderest friendship & hope that
you'll sometimes think of your sincere friend - G. Kelly
P. S. We leave town the 17th if you & I hope to be happy
we must be constant resolute & patient - I am just going to
dress to go to Councellor Robinsons but let me be where I will
my thoughts are always with you & often call people by your
name & confuse myself - While I have life I will be none but yours

I received yours my dear William which makes me very
happy to hear that you are well & that my assurances
of the most sincere love has contributed to your - -
happiness, in that case you must always be happy
for while I live I must love you - & I hope it will
always be my study to contribute every thing in
my Power to make you so - We had Company
last night they did not leave us untill 3 oClock
& my head Achs much & to cure it I am just
going to the Play so must leave off with
assuring you of my tenderest love & friendship
am your's - G. Kelly -
P. S. We leave town on Wednesday untill
I see you in the Country farewell

