Ballitore: 16/1 month 1779.
	It is very kind & quite right of thee, my dear Cousin, to give us frequent information of the state of thy own & familys health - We are I believe deeply interested at heart in one anothers welfare, & I trust our little flock & families are under the notice of him who is best able to help us - Trials & afflictions take their round, & will sooner or later come to us in course - but to be in favour with the Almighty, to keep the vessel of Conscience clean should be the great business of our lives - then there is a place of Refuge provided, a Munition of Rocks - I hardly credited the account in the news-paper of the two Friends being executed: but by a letter which came to my hand yesterday from England from Betsy Pim to my Peggy, I fear it is too true. By her letter it looks as if they had made themselves too busy in serving a party, & that they did not suffer on account of their Religious Principles, but on the principle of the cruel Policy of horrid war. She says it has been the topick of much conversation, & that there is great apprehension of Severities & Cruelties being likely to be exercised even on the inactive & quiet in N. America, who are known to be friends of government, by way of Retaliation, if more troops be sent over against them & more devastation be committed. The further account of the Interment of the Friends seems also a confirmation of their death - There may be & doubtless are false reports purposedly or accidentally propagated - but I think it needs must be that our Friends there are deeply tried, even to the very foundation of their Faith. May we who enjoy a present temporary tranquility, a momentary calm, the sunshine of an hour - may we make good use of this quiet season, be diligent in spirit, wrestling for the blessing of Preservation, & the Support of the Divine Arm under the pressence [sic] of the calamities which may yet be before us, perhaps nearer than some are aware of.
	We are mercifully favoured here with tolerable health, though my poor wife is often out of order one way or other  my daughters too here have been all complaining of Tooth ache, or jaw-ache: but I think are all better again. Abraham is gone for Edenderry, in hopes of escorting Lydia from thence to Dublin, & making his first presentation there with her 19th instant - but of this we are not yet quite certain, as her family-affairs may (though I hope will not) occasion some delay. We are far from being settled at the Retreat yet: this cannot be till Abraham & Lydia are settled in the care of their family - my wife & I sleep at the Retreat but do not go to it till after supper. This division of my family & the establishment of my son & his help-mate in their important charge & office have come very near me, & frequent have been my petitions that the Lord of heaven & Earth might bless & prosper us in that which we are about to do, not rashly, nor out of his Fear, but I trust in his Counsel, & under his approbation - we heard here what thou mentions about thy Peggy  poor child!  it is time enough for her to enter into those cares - & this thou knows, & I doubt not but she also thinks so. This is her time for opening her heart to the Instructions of pure Wisdom - to feel after the operations of the Divine hand, humbling & contriting her spirit, breaking the little clods of earth (the world) & preparing her mind for the reception of the Seed of the kingdom, that it may grow up a plant of Renown in her, & in due season bring forth fruit meet for her husbandman who has condescended to water, prune & dress - When she happily finds favour in the sight of heaven, best wisdom will be her Counsellour on every most important occasion & Almighty Power will be her Help in every difficulty. She will not let the eye of her mind out to the splendour of the world, nor its Riches, nor be taken with superficial appearances; but when she is sought for in a fair & honourable manner, she will take the advice not only of her parents & friends, but ask counsel of the divine Oracle, consult the Guide of her youth, & in all humility spread the matter before him who at one view sees the past, present & future, & only knows what will be best for us in every respect. How happy for young people to have such a Counsellour, such a Friend to apply to in cases of such great consequence & uncertainty! Surely it is their greatest interest early & earnestly to solicit, & diligently cultivate a near acquaintance & intercourse with him who is so able, & at the same time so willing to help his humble votaries, who have resigned without reserve themselves & all that they have to his holy protection & disposal.
	Poor William Gregg! to be taken off at so short warning: how does his poor widow continue? We are expecting thy mother & Abby soon to see us. I hear the old-woman is finely. She would be a welcome guest here. I do not find that Sam Neale & Joseph Garratt are yet set off for London, nor Thomas Willy for Wales, though I believe they hold their intentions. Alice Charley of London informs me by a letter received from her yesterday that they have with them Edward Higgison an old friend out of Huntingdonshire, on a visit there, the first on that service this winter. She also writes that her uncle Dr Fothergill is restored to his usual share of health. I suppose your member Thomas Haughton & my son will be proceeding toward the accomplishment of their respective affairs at the same time & in the same place. I know not will they finish the same day. I am pleased (however) that Tom is like to marry within the society  there is a great mixture in his Fathers house. Might the good predominate! Our dear love attends you all. Continue to advise us how our dear John & the rest are. Is thy wrist quite well again? My dear love to thy brother James. I am my dear Debbys truly affectionate friend & kinsman
									Richard Shackleton
