Ballitore: 16/12 month 1781.

My dear Cousin,
	Simple as thou may think thy Letters are, & though great & good folk favour me with their correspondence, there are very few Letters from which I extract greater satisfaction than from thine -- There seems something of an equality in our growth & experience, which makes the intercourse more agreeable -- Children like best to converse with children -- men with men. Thy Letters are the genuine effusions of thy heart -- & honesty, uprightness & sincerity I love -- At present I seem to have little or nothing to say on the lamentable subject touched on in thy last -- only I wish that the Great Lord & Master of all his disciples & Followers would interfere & make short work of it, as he did in his bodily appearance, whipping all these things out of his temple (his church), for if they continue there, there will certainly be great defilement, & I cannot conceive how it can be called properly a house of prayer. I dread the consequence, & would rejoice to hear the glad tidings of Peace -- these would indeed be good tidings of great joy -- Thy intelligence about dear John Gough, & thy several hints & remarks were as usual very acceptable to me. -- That troublesome fellow departed out of our coasts in a few days after his memorable feast -- I hear he is in Dublin -- We continue here much as usual as to health -- only that we have had an alarm about our little Richard -- some disorder in his bowels I believe has affected him -- he has been attended by a person of medical skill, & its thought will do well -- I believe it is the same disorder which caused the convulsion-fits when he was younger -- now that he is stronger, he gave signs of his pain by screaming -- his mother (who is within a few weeks of her time) was much affected by her sons illness -- her legs & feet swell with her burden -- but she is well attended to by a good husband, affectionate mother, & sisters who love her, though no relation of her side of the house with her -- and she really deserves attention, for she is very dutiful, affectionate & agreeable herself -- a woman of good behaviour & good understanding -- growing more & more exemplary in her appearance. -- Peggy Grubb has had fresh trouble with her daughter -- a disorder I believe somewhat like a Quinsy -- but she recovered -- She has been hampered also about her son Richard, being afraid to wean him again as he thrives so well on the breast, & yet she is encumbered a good deal with the nurses child -- Peggy I believe has not many days to reckon to her delivery, & yet the other day fell down a flight of stairs -- she was bruised by the fall, but no other bad consequence like to ensue -- By last accounts she was able to go about the house -- I hear nothing but well of our Relations in Athy -- We hope to have thy mother & Abby with us after the Quarterly Meeting, which is to be in Carlow 22d instant -- Thy brother Watson took a bed here lately, going to the Fair of Athy -- he reported them well at home & that our friends in that country were generally so I think -- Sally Cooper, her son William & daughter gone to live in Dublin -- Ned has been publickly disowned, is cutting down trees & defacing the demesne at Coopers hill I hear, not having been properly tied up in the lease made of it by him to his son -- the son had set the place to the person who is married to Tom Coopers widow, & sold the furniture, apprehending I believe that his father would otherwise be wanting to live there again. This has still more irritated the father -- Ye may probably have heard before now of the decease of dear Mabel Wigham -- she went off (I understand) almost unknown to the family, sitting in a chair. Edith Lovell is engaged I suppose visiting families in Cork -- I am glad to hear my old friend James Moreton was still able to get abroad -- Be pleased to communicate our dear love to him when thou hast opportunity -- Its also very pleasing to hear that thou thinks thy brother Jemmys disorder is wearing off. Our dear love to him & his wife. A visit from thy son James would be very agreeable to us -- Perhaps if we live till Spring, we may see a cargo of you here -- a very desirable event. Be assured all our dear love awaits thee & all thine, with thy honourable father.
	I am, my dear Debbys
		affectionate friend & kinsman
			Richard Shackleton

P.S. This is the last frank I find.
My kind love to Aby Atkinson.

P.S. I send inclosed the Answer which I received to my Letter desiring the money to be paid next third month -- I own my disposition is to oblige & please every body as far as in my power, & I am most inclined to consent to the request which Atkinson makes -- but I would be glad of your advice: Perhaps ye would not be willing to take the money at the time the man proposes to pay it in -- & I would much rather it was with some of your family than elsewhere -- Perhaps it would be better, if I did not insist on his paying it next third month, to let him keep it the whole year longer -- Perhaps his circumstances are bad, & he wants time, which it would be running too great a risk to grant him -- Please consult thy father, & favour me with your candid, friendly counsel & opinion -- I wait your answer before I write in reply to the man. Please return his Letter to me.

