
Ballitore; 1st/7th month 79.


Dear Uncle,


        How shall I make a return to thy unmerited kindness to me! I hope I may be enabled to profit by all the wholesome instructions I have at different times received and shew myself not wholly unworthy of thy care. Whether I be mercenary or no Time will discover, at present I have nothing to wish for I am supplied with every outward necessary; but I fear it will not shew me to be qualified for the profession of a School-master, for which I plainly perceive Nature never designed me. I have a far greater opinion of this important employment than to think I can ever be of any eminence in that way. He that takes upon him to instruct & form the minds & manners of others, should certainly himself be possessed of no small portion of good sense, should display evident marks of his own superiour [sic] abilities, which it is needless to say is not my case: however I shall be very well pleased to remain some years longer in the situation I am in at present, & if in that time any good may be discovered in me, I will be very happy to be of more service than I can be now. We had the pleasing account of your safe arrival in Clonmel: Poor Sally must have been transported on seeing you. How long she stays away from home! Cousin Debby would be particularly glad of her company now that she is left almost alone. You have heard I doubt not how cleverly Molly is going on, & how much pleased she is with her new tutor, her old one gladly gives her up & sincerely desires his successor may be of serviceShe begins to like Dublin better than she did at first. Betty Fuller has been confined to the house about a week, & some part of the time to her bed with a violent head-ache & sickness at her stomach, she thought she was threatened with a fever of which she is exceedingly fearful, till Frank Johnson encouraged her by letting her know he apprehended no dangerShe is now better but does not venture outJaky continues to mend very slowly. Two or three mornings ago before the family was up Malby Brabazon called down to see thee & my Aunt: he is a Lieutenant in the army & was going with his regiment to quarter in Waterford: I wonder what is become of the poor soldier that Sally told us was convinced there by Thomas Wilys ministry; we heard since he was ordered to Cork. Present my love to my Aunt, & believe me to be
        thy sincerely affectionate Nephew
                William Rayner.



