Ballitore 6mo. 2nd. 1794
Dear John
I do not know why thou should expect me to express
myself otherwise than the manner I did in my last, after the conversation
I had with thee in Dublin. I know of no reason why thou
should urge me to do what is not convenient or agreeable, if it is not
that thou imagines I have a great bargain in the purchase of thy
share of Ballyowen. Thou may remember that after the first purchase,
thou & thy wife were dissatisfied, & therefore for peace sake it
was agreed upon that thou should be put in receipt of a share of the
rents, & accordingly tenants were made over to thee, to the yearly
amount of £23-1-6, most of the remainder part of the land was
thrown up at the rent of 19s-2d per acre, from which reason it must
be expected that if it was set soon it must be set less than that in
order to procure a tenant, & then the remainder of the tenants,
after paying head-rent & annuities left me just about the same
yearly profit. Thou wast not very long in receiving this, when
the tenants were before-hand with their rent I believe, & thou came
to be in great want (& would I believe have been so if thou had
got it all in thy hands at that time) & therefore thou came to
me, & begged of me to do something for thee, & purchase it off
thee

thee again, otherwise thou would be in a starving way - I gave
thee some little matter then, & requested to be excused from having
anything more to do with thy share, & told thee if it must be sold
(wch.. I recommended thee by no means to do) thou had better look out
for a purchaser some where else - accordingly thou went to
Philipstown & tried, but got no one to accept of thy offer, as
thou wrote me on thy return, except that thou believed J: Smith
would purchase it as it lay near his ground, but thou wished
me to have it before any one, so thou prevailed upon me to
purchase it, & accordingly there was a deed drawn up & [deletion]signed[/deletion]
perfected for the purchase, dated 25th.. of 4th.. mo: 1789, the purchase
money paid, & thou settled in a way of getting a livelihood
for thy family; & probably if thou had the tender feelings
for thy children then, as thou seems to have now, thou
would not have been so lavish of thy time & substance to
thy own & their great loss - Now since that time thou hast
got from me near £150 exclusive of the purchase money,
wch. for 5 years is more than thy half of the profits of Ballyowen,
so that in fact it seems as if I had purchased nothing, &
it might be going on that way till the life would drop, &
then pray what would I have? - Now, let me ask thee if thou
had

had sold it to Wm.. Ellis, as thou did Snugborough, after I had given
it up to thee, or to any one else, would they have lent or given
thee £5 over the purchase-money? - I suppose they would not -
but because I have lent thee a great deal thou art still angry
at me for not giving more. I have no desire for receiving any
thing of thine, just pay me the money thou owes me, & for most
of wch. I have thy bond, & thine & thy wife's joint bond viz
One dated 9th.. of 10th.. mo: 1790 for - £54 .. 0s .. 0d
One do. 19th.. of 4th. mo: 1792 for - 52 - 5 - 5
& thou may have the half of the rents from this out, as received
by me to the very penny - I know of nothing fairer, &
if I know my own mind, I do not covet any one's right, neither
ought I to wrong my own family - No doubt Wm.. Beale will
advance the money for me, because he knows it will be paid
him again, & thou might have good credit by this time, if it
were not thy own fault - I mean to write to Wm.. Beale to advance
that sum (£3..0..5 1/2) although I must confess, it is
rather against my mind to do so - Farewell
Wm.. Leadbeater
To John Leadbeater (A Copy)

Copy of a Letter
To Jno. Leadbeater
6mo. 2nd. 1794.

