CoalbrookDale 28th/12th month 1764
With near affection do I tenderly Salute thee my much esteemed Friend and thy truely ^worthy^ Family, who hath very often been the subject of our thoughts and discourse. And whom we longed exceedingly to hear from of your safe arrival at your Blessed home. We often counted the Days, and observed the Winds; Committing you into the arms of Divine Providence, who holds the Winds and Seas under his command! - Thy most Welcome Letter eased and Comforted our minds, and raised thankful^ness^ in our minds on your accounts: and I longed to communicate our our Love and rejoiceing to find you had met your Dear connections in Safety and Peace. I begun to write, but before I could finish it, was taken ill. I desired my Dear Daughter Debby to write, which she would gladly have done, but was taken ill also, and confined to her Bed & Chamber for a long time. When I got better, was so low in mind, that I could not set pen to paper; and she and I with illness have been prevented almost ever since. Friend Sparks Letter she received with thankfulness, and wanted much to return her Kindness, but was not able, so my Dear Friend we must ^not^ judge from appearances: as they often make against us. Our Love and desires were strong, but inability of Mind and Body great. Thy Kind Present of Verses were very acceptable and pleased us much. - I only wish some other word had been substituted instead of my name. I ever was, and still am glad friends find Liberty & easy in their minds under our Rooff [sic]. I have, and do esteem it a great favour from Providence to have the Company of my friends, and that I am enabled to shew my regard to them. - - You have indeed been greatly favoured with the visits of the Lords Servants. - Oh may the Labour of Heavenly Love be productive of good to the Praise of the Lord of the Harvest, and the and rejoicing of the living amongst you.  for [sic] it is manifest the Visitation from on high hath renewedly spread over your Land; and clouds filled with heavenly rain descends plentiously [sic] upon the Royal Seed, to loosen it from the clods of the Earth, and raise it into Dominion in the hearts of the children of men; oh that the holy Visitation may Spread over us, yea over all, that the Darkness may be dispelled, and the glorious Gosple [sic] of our Lord Jesus may Shine over all, that all the nations of the World may come and bow under the operation of the Blessed Truth!
We have not had any of these American friends to visit us, but hope we shall be favoured there with in due season, - Thy Letter to Dear Daughter Debby came last post; and as She was not at home Ventured to open it. We are indeed glad to hear from thee of your Welfare and much obliged we are for thy kind intelligence relating our friends  and I am again roused to Strive to Scribble a few lines, altho have been some weeks ill in a Severe Cold confined to my chamber, and Still very weakly, Dear Debby  just mended from an ulcerated Sore throat, Set out upon a Visit into Wales to Visit meetings & families & into Herefordshire. Rebeca [sic] Young is gone with her. Very Severe Snow and frost since they went - and the roads so filled with Snow, that they have had great difficulties; & obliged to walk Several miles together in deep snow.  they have been gone above a month and expect they will be some weeks longer.  The Dear Young man, Fawcet, thou enquires after, departed in great Peace and Comfort about seven weeks ago.  Our worthy Friend Thomas Warring of Leominister attended the Funeral and he also had several meetings in this and adjacent places to good satisfaction. 
We shall be always glad to hear from thee and thy Dear Daughter Molly, but much more to see you here  which hope it well, to be favoured with. We deeply simpathize with Sarah Grubb  a near tryal to her indeed  but I trust she will be supported, by Him who is an Husband to the Widow, and a Father to the Fatherless!  Happy are they who are arrived safe in Em^m^anuels Land! as I ^doubt^ not our worthy Friend hath  and is numbered amongst the Justified! Friends here are generally pretty well  we have had severe weather frost & snow, and still have. -we have imparted thy Kind Love to several of our Friends whom thou Kindly remembers  and they desire their Dear love to you, I hope thou will excuse my bad inditing and writing. for I used to be more exact, but now am like others, one of the has beens  however I desire to be humbly thankful, that I am so well  I have great cause to Bless the name of the Lord our God for all his holy mercies dispensed unto me and mine  and under a degree of ^it^ I rest with Dear love to you all in which my children & I join Thy Sincere Loving Friend Abiah Darby.  our Dear love is to Friends in general  and particular Friend Ridgeway & sister sister friend Watson  and friend Beventor & Sally Stephensan & etc.: -
[words obscured by where the seal was placed]
[the following is written on the left side of the margin of the page]
Ann Summerland is now Siting by me and desires her love

