284
Reply
Oh! while along the stream of time thy name
Expanded flies, & gathers all it's fame,
Say, shall my little bark attendant sail,
Pursue the triumph, & partake the gale?
Pope.
'Tis true, sweet, gentle bard, thy parent dear
Was long my tutor, & my friend sincere,
Past scenes retracing doth his memory hold
In firm esteem, more precious far than gold;
Though now I cease to view the master near
Who watch'd my childhood with peculiar care,
Though we have lost this bright & glittering star
This standard-bearer in the christian war;
Though now he moves not here our boast & theme
My love & friendship still remain the same;
Whilst reminiscence holds a place with me,
This sweet memorial will recorded be;
And as round thee Aonian muses throng,
Attune thy numbers, & adorn thy song;
My heart beats high; - let me attach these bays,
And all my feelings for thy living lays;
Though earth's cold burden on my kinsmen lies,
I trust their spirits mount the upper skies;
Their blameless minds whiles they adorn'd the land
Retain'd th' impression of thy Father's hand;

283
Oh torn from life, torn from each tender tie,
How quickly torn! - behold that brother die!
The precious plants which round his table grew,
Bend their sweet heads, like flowers surcharg'd with dew,
And while their grief her soothing care demands.
Supreme in wo the lovely mourner stands:
Oh where is resignation to be found?
He that permits can only bind the wound.
And thou, my friend, who prest the couch of pain,
Whose drooping head is now uprais'd again,
With heart-felt grief they rumour'd death I mourn'd,
With heart-felt joy I greet thy health return'd:
Restor'd to life the drooping hearts to cheer
Of thy lov'd consort, & thy offspring dear;
Restor'd to life! - How awful is the sound!
Again to tread the thorny slippery ground
While threatening clouds have gather'd blackness round
Where oft our erring footsteps wide shall stray,
Without the guiding star to mark our way,
In trembling hope here let us fix our eye,
Resign'd to live, alike resign'd to die.

