New York 2mo 11. 1826
My dear Friend
It was only very lately that
I received thy interesting Epistle dated 9 mo 12th
- it was forwarded by my father from Waterford
which accounts, in some measure, for its having
been so long on the way.
Thy more useful employment, writing for the
Education Society, is quite a sufficient excuse
for apparently forgetting thy American correspondent,
- altho', to be sure, I am more selfish that patriotic,
and, had I the direction of thy pen, it would
have sometimes, neglected the dialogue or story, for
my individual gratification. I wish some of
my Dublin friends had sent me out copies of the
works thou speaks of - I wrote for all the books
which the Education Society have issued, last
summer, but they have never yet made their
appearance - A friend of mine here, who takes
an active interest in the Free Schools, was so
much pleased with some of the former books
published in Dublin, he got me to write for
the entire list of them; - I still hope to get them.
I am very much gratified to learn that the
great cause of Education, notwithstanding the
opposition it has met with in various ways,
is really extending throughout Ireland, and I
depend upon the present awakened interest in
England to the subject, for its further extension.

In this Country, it is one of the first things the
Legislatures attend to, & so liberal have been the
provisions for the establishment of schools, it is
a Man's own fault, if his children remain ignorant.
The State of New York, has a population of 1,600,000
souls, & by the returns made to the government
it appears that during the past year about
500,000 children have attended school - so that
there can be very few indeed of the rising generation
un-educated. - In fact, it is exceedingly rare to
find any person now who cannot read & write
except among [underline]foreigners.[/underline] - The Government is
founded upon reason & could never be upheld
by an ignorant population, and therefore it
becomes absolutely necessary to secure the reasoning
faculties of the people at large, by education.
If Ireland were similarly blessed with common
schools, the consequent increase of [underline]moral[/underline] force
which they would create in its dense population,
would inevitably obtain political emancipation,
& lead to the reform of many of the existing
abuses. - Those philanthropists, therefore, who aid
education, & keep aloof from politics, are in
reality giving efficient support to the cause of
Emancipation, and where they dislike political
discussions, I never cast any reflection on them
for their [underline]apparent[/underline] apathy to Irish grievances -
Here, I think OConnell & some other popular leaders
make a mistake in ridiculing the exertions
of those [underline]Neutral[/underline] characters - if they give them
no praise, they should at least abstain from
censures, for surely every Philanthropist has
a right to choose his own path of usefulness.

James Cropper, for instance, does not trouble his
head about Irish politics, but is endeavouring to
engraft Manufacturers upon Munster. He knows
that a positive encrease of wealth to Ireland
will be the consequence, and politicians [underline]ought[/underline]
to perceive that [underline]this[/underline] in itself is a potent tho'
silent assistant of theirs, & therefore they should
never reflect on him, for omitting to advocate
their peculiar opinions. - I am often surprised
that the subject does not strike OConnell & his
associates in this simple point of view, which
would save them a vast deal of unmeaning and
improper abuse, & really serve themselves.
We take a good share of interest in your affairs
on this side of the Atlantic, which is not to be
wondered at considering the mixture of Irish blood
which exists here. - Last summer a Meeting
was held of Irishmen to devise some means of
assisting the cause of freedom in Ireland, and
it ended in an Address which was sent to
Dublin, & which I believe has been published in
your Newspapers. This address was written by
Doctor McNevin, & contained many good ideas,
altho' it of course went farther than would be
approved of by the ruling party in England.
The expediency of this interference by Irishmen here
in the affairs of Ireland, was questioned by
several considerate men, because, from the part
that several of them had taken in 1798, it was
thought, an expression of their feelings [underline]now[/underline]
might prejudice the fearful in England
against the cause they advocated: - & at all events
it might be used as an argument by the intolerant.

The extracts from M Birkbeck's letters relative
to his son, are very interesting, and I do not wonder
that thou should have felt such an interest in the
latter. I had an account of his death shortly after
it occurred, from Robert Owen, who parted with him
on the very morning of that melancholy event.
M.B. had been paying Owen a visit at his new
settlement, Harmony, & during his stay, the latter had
succeeded in reconciling him to his neighbour Flower
with whose family, tho' once intimately connected, he
had held no intercourse for seven years. This
happy issue had evidently been highly gratifying to
both parties, & M.B. declared upon taking his leave
that he had not experienced such real pleasure
since his arrival in America, & he promised soon
to visit Harmony again - but alas! before another
Sun, he was doomed 'to pay a greater debt'. The
small river which he & his companions had to cross
was much swelled by late rains, so much so, that
one of the party declined to swim it & endeavoured
to prevail upon the others to return to Harmony
for the night. M Birkbeck, however, was determined
to try it with his son, having well tried horses
under them - they accordingly did so, and when
about midway across, the former's horse sunk,
& after a few vain struggles, he went down also,
never to rise again alive! - His son was carried
some distance down the stream, & when he reached
the bank of the river, was almost exhausted. The
body was found soon afterwards and carried back
to Harmony where it was interred amidst the sincere
regrets of the whole community, & at the funeral
the children of the deceased & of Flower, confirmed
the reconciliation which their parents had just agreed to.-

