My dear Cousin                               Ballitore: 17/8 month 1775


                I am in debt to two very acceptable Letters of thine. Much & various care & cumber must plead my excuse for not being more speedy in Reply. Thou seems by thy latter not to be well pleased with thy former Letter. Tis true, there is an ineffectual bemoaning, & a Looking the wrong way for help: but there is also a time & a season & a freedom in which we may unbosom ourselves in some degree to our intimate friends, & sometimes not unprofitably, deep [word crossed out] ^calling unto^ deep. For my part, I know no better way than diligently keep up the watch unto prayer, wait in simplicity for the operation of the Spirit of Truth to appear in its own way & manner, & do its present office, according to the present occasion; for manifold is the Grace of God. This with a faithful, honest discharge of what we are made sensible to be our duty is the way & the only way for us to gather strength, & get the better of our many infirmities, both of flesh & spirit. At least, I have so learned, wish I could always so practise. It may sometimes not be of much use any way to dwell too long & often on the contemplation of the degenerate state of our Religious society. When this view is brought before us in the vision of Life, it is good, it is productive of humbling Baptism in sympathy with the oppressed Seed; & of strong Cries for its deliverance. But if we look at this declension with the eye of human Reason only, we may be much deceived, & pierce ourselves with sorrow of our own making, as well as heal ourselves with sparks of our own kindling. There may be many of the Lords anointed out present hid among the Stuff, who when they are in due time brought forth will appear taller by the head & shoulders in religious stature than the Generality of their brethren. And many goodly personages, who are like eldest brothers & heirs apparent in the family, yet are known by Him who sees the heart to have forfeited the pre-eminence of their Birth-right, & not to merit the Rank which they are fond to assume. Let us, my beloved Friend, make it our principal care & endeavour to get a settlement in a given & still habitation, taking diligent heed to ourselves, that our own hearts & hands be kept clean, & simply doing according to the best ability afforded that little portion of the great work, which appears to be our proper business: so shall we witness that Peace & Tranquillity of mind which cannot be enjoyed but as our Obedience keeps pace with Knowledge, & be freed from a numberless train of disquietudes & perplexities which ever attend a negligent or partial performance of our duties; growing from strength to strength, & increasing in the Increase of Goods.
        I remark what thou says [sic] about the Friends close Testimony in your meeting: it is hard sometimes to account for these things. There may be a Cause which ^we^ [word crossed out] cannot at present discover: a future day may make it manifest: The ways of the master are not our ways, nor his thoughts our thoughts. The poor servant too is liable to be mistaken, & though standing up under a right concern may in the course of the testimony let in a mixture of the Creature, gradually swerve from the Line of immediate Revelation, & mistake something else for the Life & Power of Gospel ministry. I am far from saying this was the present case, having no authority to judge what I did not hear, & if I had heard, would be exceedingly cautious of meddling, of touching the anointed; for such indeed I believe is our Friend whom thou mentions! I made a pretty long excursion with her & Co., was at our own quarterly meeting & the quarterly meeting of Waterford with her, think she is a true minister (though a fallible woman), have often felt something of a very tendering, baptizing nature accompany her appearances, & present & absent have found much unity with her. As to the young mans accompanying them...I believe he was often serviceable & helpful to the weak women on their Journey, & no uneasiness to them only what was occasioned by a Fear lest some should not think well of his going constantly with them. For this reason, I believe they would have liked as well that he should have quitted them; but he made it a point of duty & necessity to proceed with them; & as his conduct & conversation were prudent & exemplary, & he stamped his commission high, Friends were loath to compel him to return. I ventured to talk to him a little on the subject as we travelled together, but not with something very disagreeable in return, which I neither expected, nor deserve from him; so lest I should do hurt I was determined my hand should not be upon him, & left them to settle the affair among themselves. The honest women took shipping at Dublin & sailed for England last week. I believe they had much love & hearty respect for your family. 
        I believe they go on very prosperously in business at Athy, & are a considerable accession of help to that poor meeting. Thy Uncle & Cousin John with them at present, & I hear nothing but that they do so far very well together. Thy Mother has been here these few weeks past, is fine company for Sister Carleton & highly pleasing to us all. When the weather settles I believe she means to take a view of the new house near Derrygarron, but whether to spend the winter there is not (I believe) yet determined. We do not approve of it for her. 
        It is matter of joy to us on many accounts that thy Brother James has made a wise choice. Certainly nothing is better than Religion for use & ornament. If it be the will of the great dispenser of the Cup of life to pour out many prosperous circumstances, Religion preserves in the moderation & gives the best Relish to [seal] Sweets. If trouble & adversity be mingled in a great degree, Religion supports & comforts, sweetens the potion & makes it salutary. We are a good deal concerned about James his trying situation with respect to the present disturbances. As he dwells inward & deep, breathing for help & preservation from Evil, & acts in no respect so as to violate illuminated Conscience, no doubt but all will work together for Good, which with our dear love to him is what we heartily desire for him. Thy mother with us is anxious to know how he comes off with the dangerous office which he has got at so critical a time; request to hear as soon as may be.
        As to thy little Favourite.I do from my heart love thy offspring, as I dearly loved their Father, & love their Mother: & I always was, am, & I hope ever shall be willing to render any service in my power to thee or thine. If thou sends that little cherub to me, I will not only take him into my school, but into my bosom. 
I find I have no Frank for thee; so send this under a cover to T: Green, for whom I find a Frank. Thy last (Ralph Fetherstons Frank furnished by me) was marked for counterfeit. 
I dont incline to purchase from Sir Richard, but write to him this post for an order on his Tenant in the Kings County. I am sick & tired of Law. However, am much obliged by thy thought about the affair. We all (thy mother included) join in dear love to every branch of your family. Cousin Sam Carleton thought of accompanying Joseph Mickle to your country, but was discouraged from the attempt by a great deafness, which holds him still. My Molly wrote the enclosed to be sent by him.
Very affectionately thine
Richard Shackleton
