Dublin 17 October 1821
14 Abbey Street
Dear Cousin,
As I mentioned to Geo Shackleton the probability
of a matrimonial connexion taking place between Mary
& a young man he saw at our house before he went to
England; it did not occur to me to announce the event
to my Friends in Ballitore: I hope there may be a prospect
of a reasonable share of comforts from the union, although
the parties are not abounding with the goods of this world.
The young man is a native of Scotland, about 26 or 30 years
of age, bears a good character with his employers & acquaintances.
he appears to be of a religious cast, is a member of an
independent Church of Dissenters, whose pastor is Mr Wm Cooper
a celebrated preacher among that sect, & one of exemplary conduct.
The acquaintance commenced in my absence from home; and
the entire progress of the intimacy matured without my
knowledge. - My 4 daughters have attached themselves to
that sect & become professed members of it - 3 of them, teachers
of Children at a Sunday School, in which duty he had also
enlisted - the attachment seemed so strong, that I had no

course left me, when I heard of what was going forward, than
to give my assent; and hitherto I see no cause to rue it.
His name is Robert McKean - he conducts business for
Messrs Clarke, eminent Founder, & Iron-manufacturers (Ringsend
& Astons Quay) - A brother & sister and others of their
acquaintance were present at the marriage - all apparently
very respectable - This affair was no Smithfield bargain
nor was there any deception on my part - for I candidly
acknowledged what he had [underline]not[/underline] to expect. Should they
be favoured with the blessing of the Almighty, there will be
no occasion to regret the want of such outfit, as is generally
looked on as indispensable - Without the blessing - where is
the value of abundance. They and I, and the entire
family are much gratified by your kind expressions and
wish to make suitable returns. Richard continues still
without employment - applies himself closely to Books
in hope of deriving some advantage against the time of
exertion, which it is to be hoped will one day arrive. Sir C. Coote
was very civil - but declared it to be out of his power to
recommend to a situation in his department - at all events
there was no vacancy. I could not prevail on Richard

to come to an interview with him - unless it should be his
particular desire. The Letter to T. Donellan was delivered
in person - it seems the object of study had brought them
acquainted before: Richard has repeatedly desired I might
express his wish to go to Ballitore as a Junior Assistant,
if any vacancy should open - and he might devote the leisure
hours to his own improvement - if such an opportunity offered
I doubt not he would endeavour to render himself useful.
Through mercy I am pretty well restored to
pristine health - I experience some symptoms
of that nervous disorder at times - but of
short continuance - & not to prevent me
from moving about: The King had a busy time of it when in
Ireland - he laid himself out as well as could be devised for
mutual gratification - The change of weather disconcerted the
visit to the Curragh
With dear love to all Friends
I remain
thine sincerely
William Rayner

Mary Leadbeater
Ballitore

