Castleford, 7mo 10th 1785
My dear Cousin
Thy very acceptable Letter my
Husband sent me from London, he did not
return directly, having to go into Dorsetshire
on account of Business respecting the Pottery.
in which he is concerned there he unexpectedly
met with a Farm for Morris; it is at a great
distance from us, but in every other respect
so eligible that, after due consideration, they
concluded to take it, nothing likely in this
part of the Country offering.
Thy kind Present; for which I am
obliged to thee, was sent with other things
in a Box by Water, they are not yet
arrived but daily expected. I was not
a little disappointed that thy Father did not
pay his relations in Yorkshire a visit; I hoped
he would on Cousin Sally's acct. I should have
been truly glad of their company- at Selby
they

they are disappointed too, last fourth day my Husband
& I accompanied a friend thither, W.m Crotch from
Suffolk; we drank Tea with thy Cousin Jane, her
Father & she were alone; her Mother we saw at York
& the Widow Shackleton, they were well, Sammy
was gone to Beverly; I told Jane of this conveyance
by Sarah Grub, she seemed inclinable to avail herself
of it
I am much obliged to thee for the Verses:
but I trust it is not a last farewell; I hope thou
wilt visit England again. It would afford us great
satisfaction to see our Relations in Ireland, thy
Worthy Mother in particular; when a suitable
opportunity may offer seems yet very uncertain.
Thy account of your families was very acceptable
;Cousins Abram & Lydia are closely engaged
I doubt not, as their Children & School increase;
our dear Love attends them & cousins I & D
Chandlee. - John & C. Hustler have met with
a close tryal in the sudden Removal of their
daughter Christiana; this day week she attended
a general meeting about ten miles from Undercliff
& died on fourth or fifth day, (I am not certain
which) of a mortifications in her Bowels her Father

was absent in [unclear]Westmo[/unclear] I believe, she was,
about 13 years of [unclear]age eet[/unclear] engaging Girl.
Thy account of Hannah Tavernor is very extraordinary,
please remember me to her, Johnathan
Haughton & his Daughters - If thou should'st
see Rebecca Jones, do give our dear Love to her,
I hope to hear from thee soon- how you all
are & - mayst inform my dear Cousin D. Chandlee
that my Sister M. Bradford has been in a poor state
of health for sometime- but now is finely recovered;
her Mother still continues, but much reduced;
the rest of our relations at Lancaster in usual
health M. Dillworth excepted- tho' finely recruited
considering her disorder - I believed I am in debt
to Debby, she must give me credit a little
longer - I do not forget her, but opportunities
of conveyance are so rare [deletion]that[/deletion] we being
situated in rather a bye place have not timely
notice when they do offer- My Husband unites
in dear Love to thy Father, Mother, Sister & thyself
with thy truly affectionate cousin
Please direct to
of their
M. Birkbeck, Castleford
Sarah Birkbeck
near Ferry Bridge

S; Birkbeck
Castleford; 10/7 mo: 1785
Ansd 3/8
Mary Shackleton
Ballitore
& Favour of
Sarah Grubb

