Lisburn April 27th 1809-
Many thanks, my dear friend, for thy kindness
in writing to me. Indeed I am always grateful for any
act of kindness or friendship; and I wish I could shew how
much I feel obliged in some better manner, than what
I generally do in writing. but I am sure I shall never
be able to express any sentiment in either writing or
conversation, as well as I would wish; but my Friends
are so indulgent to me that they often overlook my
faults. I hope thou was not disappointed in Rushton's
poem. My Father had a letter from him lately. His sight
continues to improve, and he seems delighted at being
able to view the beauties of Nature. I find by a letter
which I had lately from my very dear friend [unclear]T.[unclear] Houlbrooke
that Rushton is seldom in Liverpool, which I fear will
not answer for him as I believe his business is not
very good, and if he neglects what business he has I
fear his family will suffer. His liberality in politics
and dislike of the slave trade does not make him
popular in Liverpool. I wrote to Betsy Shackleton the

beginning of this week, and she would inform thee
about the Rathbone family. Their loss has indeed been
very great, and they will every day feel the loss of
the inestimable W Rathbone more & more. I have often
when thinking of his death, thought with my favorite
Beattie "O death, why arm with cruelty thy power,
And spare the idle weed, yet lop the flower."
The family, as is to be supposed, feel his loss severely,
yet they could better spare their father than most
families, for they are steady, amiable & intelligent,
and their mother is the best, most affectionate
and sensible woman I ever knew. I am sure her
attention to me when I was there in ill health, and
worse spirits after the death of my dearest brother,
shall never be forgotten. I wrote to her lately, but
I found it impossible to express what I felt, for my
heart was too full to write on the death of my
dear & venerated friend WR
Immediately on receiving thy letter, I sent the
three pieces of poetry to the printers of the Magazine,
saying that my Father highly approved of them, and I
requested if the poetry was not printed for this month

the three pieces should be inserted. I have not got an
answer yet, but I fear it is too late for this magazine,
however they shall appear in the next. I think it
is a pity the Magazine proprietors were not more
select in their tales. they have got no praise for
their insertion of Rosa . We have also a great many
squibs in the Belfast newpapers against their politics;
and a [underline]furious[/underline] attack on the criticism of Miss Owenson's
Ida of Athens. I think thou would not admire
Ida for I have seen few writers of the female sex
[unclear]rely[/unclear] to disregard that delicacy of feeling
which ought always to characterize their
writings, as Miss Owenson appears to do - but she is
quite the fashion among one class of readers here, and the
reviewer of Ida in the Magazine is said by some to
be unworthy of the name of an Irishman - but in
my humble opinion he deserves credit for speaking
his sentiments. My Father wishes very much that
Betsy Shackleton would permit two dialogues she
sent me, to be published in the Magazine - he also
wishes for some things out of the Ballitore Magazine;
would it be unreasonable to request thee to persuade

Betsy on this subject. I am quite regretting the prospect
of losing Ben Haughton. - and I am so selfish as to wish
he would have preferred living [insertion]in[/insertion] Belfast. Edmund is
an uncommonly fine boy - Jane is very well, and I am
very much vexed that my illness should prevent
me from paying them one more visit before their
leaving Belfast. What a letter I have written, and I
fear thou will find it a very uninteresting one - if
I were good at making apologies I would certainly
make one, but as I am not, I shall only beg thee to
excuse my nonsense, & believe me thy affectionate
SH
Please give my dear love to Elizabeth and
Deborah who I am partial to, from
what I have heard of them
S: Hancock
Lisburn 27 / 4 mo: 1809
ansd - 15/5 -
Mary Leadbeater
Ballitore.

