Mt. melick 16/5 mo: 1788.
The joint letter of my dear friends I received, for which
I am much obliged to them- - It gave me no small trouble when
I found what a favour I had asked from thee Mary - in
the first place to ask thee to write at all, in the next that
of sending a verbal message to thee, I might have at least wrote
to transmit an account of the halfyear's meeting, no little
matter I find, & had I known that it would have caused
thee to have written so much, I don't know that I would 
have troubled thee; not but it was all very acceptable for
thou just sent me what I had a desire to know, & now that it is
done I may say I am obliged to thee for being so minute- however
I intend to be more careful in future. I suppose it was
a favoured season and a time of good to many- Thou desired
that if I should write I might be particular as to my health, & not
to make the best of it, but is there not also danger of making
the worst of it.- - it would be a pity I think to refuse thee
any thing, much more so that, that can be so easily granted.
Indeed I scarce know how to begin, for perhaps I may say
what's wrong; there is a great deal in imagination thou 
knows; but, to be candid,- I think I am nothing better than
when thou saw me last; however I am inclined to think that
I am not much, if any thing worse- thou asked me also, I
think, to excuse thee if it was not practicable for thee to write
from

from Clonmel, certainly I would, for I don't deserve that favour, nor
ought I to expect it, therefore leave thee to thy freedom again, for
I would much rather forfeit the pleasure of hearing from thee, than
that thou should run the risque of being injured by me, for if
I had considered rightly what I was about to ask, probably I wd.
not have asked it & as to the propriety of it I believe it wont admit
of an argument - but still circumstances alter cases-
who, or what am I, that thou should write to me? who knows how
I may turn out yet? I would therefore caution thee between ourselves
(nothing but my regard for thee could I think induce me
to do so) to be careful of thy words & actions respecting me, lest
any one hereafter, or even now [insertion]should[/insertion] upraid thee with them, for that
I could not well bear - I am very sensible of thy great friendship
for me, I have felt it, & feel it now, at the same time
dont wish to have it conveyed thro' other channels; I mean
that others should know it who should not know it -
I feel myself at present quite free to write my mind to thee,
it comes from one who really wishes thee well. therefore
I don't fear to offend - As to outward affairs, or any thing
outward, I can say I think safely, I have little or no trouble
about, they being all settled pretty much to my satisfaction -
but it is from within that my fears arise, & is cause of
sorrow to me, for I may go mourning about, & ask like Pilate
"what is truth" for I seem almost ignorant of any good of late, as
to experimental knowledge - I even dread going to meetings I
suffer so (see how I tell thee) as well as from bodily weakness, as the

great poverty of spirit I have been this length of time tried
with - these are trials of some consequence, but as to outward
circumstances I am favoured at present to think but little
about, indeed, as thou says, they are not worth our attention -
The Manuscripts with the Tablet I received, [deletion]with[/deletion] [insertion]which[/insertion] with
the rest of thy favours I say again, I am obliged to thee for
Anstis talks of going to Ballitore, I suppose intends stayg.
there till the Mg. of Moat, she expects to hear from thee
before she writes, I did not tell her, or any one else that I
heard from thee - I believe tis' time for me now to conclude -
this one thing I know, that if I have said any
thing I should not say, thou wilt excuse me, Ple[insertion]a[/insertion]se
to give my love to E. & A.G. & tell them I am obliged to
them for thinking of me, so for the present farewell
do take good care of thyself.
thine &c.
Wm. Leadbeater.

Benjamin Grub,
Clonmel.
For Mary Shackleton
WL Mt. Melick 16/5 mo: 1788
Ansr. 1/6-

