28/10/1821
Dear Eliza
I thank you for the pleasure you have given
me by the receipt of your sheet by SL. The note you copied
for me appears to have been written by an observer of human nature,
can you tell me who was the author, it is written in so
confused a manner that I cannot think it was [insertion]the production of[/insertion] Stewart. I had
to read it several times before I could gather the meaning, which
might proceed from my own stupidity. I feel the force of what he
says so much that I do not intend to write more about morality
and sentiment, conscious of not acting in every case as I ought.
It is much to be wished that every author who has any subject
which he desires to lay before the public, should express his sentiments
in such a manner as "you say" Stewart has of impressing
on the minds of his readers, the discoveries he has made in the
human mind. The common class of readers, might by that
means, become better acquainted with truths, which by their
not being clearly expressed, they pass over and forget for ever.
If I supposed you wrote merely for the pleasure of writing and
not for my instruction I might think you guilty of impertinence
but knowing the contrary I cannot think it any impertinence
in your extracting what you please, therefore demand as
much of my approbation, for what you meet with in your

studies as I am disposed to give, and which you have
for that extract from Stewart on the subject of Novel Reading.
The Citizens of Dublin I hope have profited by his Majesties visit
it perhaps had the same effect on them as reading novels has
on the mind of an individual.
I must begin to tell you old news; a few Sundays ago, a
party of five set [insertion]out[/insertion] from Dublin for Bray, on the way to the top
of Big Sugarloaf; we stopped at Williamstown to bathe, proceeding
to Bray we breakfasted at Quins hotel (famous for
beefstake breakfasts) and journeyed on, along a handsome
road, quite new to me, to the foot; after a hard climb of above
half an hour, we reached the top, where we looked down on
hill and dale with a bird's eye The people were so loyal
here, that they had a bonfire on the top, the night of the day
of his visit to Powerscourt. After admiring the view all
round we descended and walked on towards the Waterfall
it began to rain on us which obliged us to shelter in several
houses along the Road, some of our party being afraid of spoiling
their coats, we had a fine view of the Waterfall from
a rock on one side of that Road where you may remember
that the Sea and Kilincy opened on you, that memorable
evening of our return from the Vale of Avoca "Oh the days are
gone"! those days which memory often recals as being

some of the happiest of my life. To return to our excursion; the
evening was a wild gloomy one which set off the fading verdure
of the woods. After travelling over dirty roads and wet fields
we arrived at Glendruid about 5 OClock. where we met the
Doctor. when we had changed our Stockings we were attracted
out by the extraordinary appearance of the Sky and Clouds
over the three rock Mountain their was a great volume of smokey
cloud which [deletion]you would think[/deletion] [insertion]appeared as if it[/insertion] would roll down on you like
a torrent, more over our heads was another cloud of a different
colour which hung like a curtain, on the drawing up
of which depended the fate of the world, the reflection of light
on the [unclear]house[/unclear] and fields was truly awful, the clouds to the
east, that is over the Sea, were of a most extraordinary co[deletion]u[/deletion]lour
being in some parts of a deep blue. I Slept in Britain St that night.
The Sunday after Sarah came we went to the top of Corragolgom and
to Roberts's it was a gloomy day which did not [unclear]answer[/unclear] the
view well; you congratulate me on the opportunity of becoming
acquainted with Sarah, but from my seeing her only one day in the
week and one of those days she was riding out with Edward
I think she may be gone without my becoming much more intimate
with her good qualities than I was before, from observations
I have been able to make I think she is very far above the common
sort of young ladies her liveliness as well as her sister's have charms
which by a person of my monotonous life, will not easily be forgotten

Hallow'een is all over Sarah will tell you all about it.
We must look forward to Christmas when I hope to see you here.
I would wish for some of your observations on [insertion]the[/insertion] history of Rome
if agreable, they will serve to call to my remembrance circumstances
which I might have forgot John
Yesterday evening (Sunday the 28th) we were on Tillietudlam admiring
the beautiful sky of an October evening, we saw the Planet Venus just
setting over Glencullen Mountain on which it seemed to rest for a
short time to bid adieu to Jupiter & Saturn which were on the opposite
side of the heavens
Eliza Gough
Ballitore
This [unclear]book[/unclear] was on the top of Big Sugarloaf

