Lisburn 5 mo 26th 1809
I am very much obliged to thee, my dear
Friend, for thy kind letter, and the poetry which came
too late for insertion in the next number of the
Magazine, but I expect it will appear in the Magazine
for June. In the poetry for this month thou
will see the Sonnet to a Redbreast, the Father to
his babe, and two pieces from the Ballitore magazine
to which we have put the signatures of Floretta
and Florella as we did not know which it was
Elizabeth or Deborah wrote them. In the selected poetry
there is a very beautiful poem by W Roscoe entitled
the Butterfly's birth day. In the same magazine thou
will see one of Betsy's dialogues. In the magazine
for June there will be extracts from the Ballitore
magazine, given as essays addressed to the Editor
of the Belfast magazine. We thought this was the
best plan as thou did not wish Ballitore to be
affixed to the papers. I have put the signature of

Mary to thy poem, and Eliza to Betsy's papers. I
did not wish them signed M or any other letter,
as the lords of the creation have not the smallest
doubt of being the wisest sex, and are generally
inclined to attribute any well written essay or poem
to their own sex, and for this reason I wish to
sign your papers with a female signature; but
if thou would rather put another name to the
poem than Mary I can very readily get it altered
as the proof sheets of the magazine are sent here
for correction. Would it be unreasonable to request
thee to send some more of your Ballitore magazines
to us? If thou would send them to the care of H.
Fitzpatrick Capel street Dublin, directed to Smyth &
Lyons, Printers, Belfast for me, they would come
very safe. My Father desires me to say that he
understands thou intends publishing a book soon, and
if thou would wish it to be announced to the public,
he would have any notice thou pleased inserted in
the magazine, in the same manner that new publications

& works in the press are announced in the
English magazines.
Betsy Shackleton need not be
ashamed to see Spring in print: it was so much
admired that the Editor of one of the Belfast
newspapers gave it as an extract from the Magazine.
Rosa will be finished in this magazine.
There are some good sentiments at the conclusion
of the tale. Delia is Mrs Lamont a schoolmistress
in Belfast. She lost her husband a few years ago,
and has nothing to support herself & her family but
her school, which at present is pretty large. It was
Delia that wrote the verses on the revival
of the Irish harp which Betsy took to Ballitore
with her. Lydia is quite unknown; her poetry once
came with the Lurgan post mark on the letter. I do
not know who Wm. of Dungannon is; but he has lately
been detected in plagiarism from Rogers' pleasures of
Memory. I do not know when Miss Balfour's poems
will be published. Mr Bunting a music master in
Belfast has collected all the old Irish tunes, and got
several persons to put words to the music. All these
songs are taken to Campbell the author of the Pleasures
of Hope, for his selection, and any of Miss Balfours
songs [insertion]which[/insertion] are not chosen she [deletion][/deletion] [insertion]intends adding[/insertion] to her poems.

This has caused delay but I expect the poems will be put
to press in a few weeks. Tell Betsy Shackleton that Mrs Bunting
has found the beautiful Scotch song of "Lochaber no more"
to be the ancient Irish tune of the "surrender of Limerick,"
which the Scotch were kind enough to steal from the Irish -
Please also tell her if she has not already sent her letter
by Jonathan Pike, to send it by post, as I do not like
waiting to get letters by opportunities. I have papers
to send to her, and Betsy has a parcel for Mary which we
intend sending with the magazine to the care of T Haughton
We expect Ben & Jane H- next week on their way to Dublin.
Their auction will be on 2nd day. Ben says he will contribute
a paper to the Ballitore magazine. Has thou read
Crabbe's poems, I am delighted with them. My paper is too
small to say all I wished, and Ben says thou does not
like a letter crossed. With dear love to Elizabeth & Deborah;
Betsy, Mary & Margaret &c &c. I am most sincerely
thy very affectionate
S Hancock -
Since writing the [unclear]above[/unclear] before breakfast
this morning a message has come from
the printers of the magazine to say that
owing to an [unclear]unexpected[/unclear] occurrence [underline]some[/underline] of the papers from
Ballitore will have to be omitted this month
but will all appear next month
S: Hancock
Lisburne 26/5 mo: 1809
And . . 2/6 --
Mary Leadbeater
Ballitore

