Waterford 1st/11th mo/1780
I am puzzled thinking who I shall address
this to as I know not who stays at home & who is bound
for Dublin - But may it not arrive before you
go if sent by post? that thought is the clue which
extricates me from the maze & determines me to dedicate
these few lines to Maria. I designed to charge
Dr. Davis with this letter at first who is so kind as
to take a little parcel for Mary F Cudson to drop
at your Merchantess's The Road I hope Moll's business
continues to thrive & that she gets her health better
Her indisposition prevented me paying me respects
to her the morning I took horse. Is Bob Hudson's
the house of mourning still? How are the poor sufferers?
Did thou look carefully in the departments of
Poetry & Didactics not Didactics but - Philology
for Bysse? I cannot for certain recollect what became

of it but this I can safely say if I brought it from
the Retreat I put it up in the Study. I would be much
gratified if thou would send me the late poems on S. C.
& BW. to take a copy of them & I will return them to thee
I expect also to be favoured with any other productions
of thine as they come fresh from the mint. This morning
I was feasted with my dear Uncle's & Sally's letters &
thank them for so kindly remembering me. Please to let
my Uncle know that Betty Gregory gets her health
tolerably well she has been out several times to Meetings
& frequently uses her endeavours with her hearers to
persuade them to pursue what is in a very eminent
degree their interest. The remains of Mary Barnes were
interred this evening of whose death the Friend had
a Prophetick feeling some time ago in the Family Visit.
Indeed the alarm of Death was repeatedly sounded
of late in Meeting by her & other Friends. Joseph Garratt
accompanied by Archibald Balfour &c. set off for
the County Wexford last Sixth-day to visit families
there & make it their way to Dublin: Joseph would
have written to my uncle before he left this; had he

time. Samuel Neale for aught I know is in England
by this: I understand he designed to sail from Cork -
he & Edward Hatton, I saw Sam Grubb here two days
ago he said he left all well at home but perhaps
he may be with you before this as he told me
he designed to go to Dublin. I see Albey often:
he desires when I write his love to be presented: he
expressed his surprise that thou should forget him
so soon as not to know him in Cork. How does
Nanny get her health & Molly Hudson? I hope
D: Widdows has left off complaining (i.e. has no
cause to complain) I saw the Boatman the other day
who got the saddle-bags to bring to Athy he was prevented
going thither by the floods & assures me
he will take care of them. I would have sent them
by Owen Brady but that I thought I could readily
get an opportunity of sending them home & it would
be very inconvenient for me to be without something
to keep my things in until my trunk would
come. I am very glad to hear of the Eyres Poor Fellows I wish them well.
Guess who is going to America, little Geo. Taggart I saw his Father some
time ago who informed me of that Regt. being ordered abroad. Billy Wray
belongs to the same Corps. I have just room to request my love may be presented
to every individual of the family & to subscribe myself thine William Rayner

Mary Shackleton
Retreat
Wm.. Rayner
Waterford: 1/11 mo: 1780
Answered 17-

