July 30 1821
Dear Eliza
I may ask you now it is all over, how you
find your excursion agreed with you. I suppose you have not told
your friends all you saw yet. I will tell you what you saw
I writ you saw friends faces, bidding you farewell at 3 0 Clock in the
morning, then you travelled on through divers Sights, worthy the attention
of a lover of the country, untill you came to the mountains, where
you saw a woman who told you your rear guard was before,
you saw a barrack, and the Mottie, you went on farther and
you saw friends faces welcoming you, so you had the benefit
of a parting & meeting in one day. Then you went up on a hill,
where you saw what you never saw before in your life,
and then down again, into the cars along a dusty road,
till you came to a turn down to the river, where, you
seemed as if you could live on looking at the trees and
water, without eating any thing more substantial,
then you saw after dinner, a Side Scene where there was
a group [deletion][/deletion] wading through the moving bog, you
saw them get through, mount the cars, and away through
dust to the ferry over the River of Water, to the land of
Beech Trees, where you saw a house Garden and Swans, you
went back again through dust, dust, dust, 'till you came to
 the house of Rest. Next morning you went out at [unclear]5[/unclear] Oclock,
up on a hill through Grass fern & furze, and you saw, Oh
what did you not see? memory will bring it to you for
many a day. well, down you came, to feed, after feeding
time into the cars again through dust till you came to a gate
which you walked under and up a hill till you came to
a stone & mortar place, where you saw books, paper, music
furniture, pictures, plants, and mountains, Oh! you
came down another road where there was a heart found

by a body. Down you went the hill of life till you came
 to the Cottage of Games, where you saw Jenny, Shakespear,
Locke, and some others. Then you went into the cars again,
up a hill of def- along a road, in at a gate, to a mock
ruin, where you might have taken a flight to tother worlds,
if you were so disposed, you then saw an assemblage
of trees through which you walked 'till you came to
a place where there was water running, where you had
a mind to abide for some time, only you were found
by a friend, who brought you into the world again, where
after going through more of this dust, (a dry thing this
dust), you came to another gate way which you
entered and so on to a house, where you fed again,
mind it was a house, but not at Killiney.
Well after eating, you went through trees till you came
to a place where there was no entrance, but you got
in by a breach, (what will not perseverance get over)
after seeing what was to be seen you went back, and on the
way drank out of a vessell of flesh, you then mounted
the wheels of motion which brought you to Repose. Next
morning you mounted a hill to see Kell, which having
seen you came down, again to eat, (eating is very necessary)
after dejeuné, you parted with some of your company,
who were going to that home, which was most dear to them
After travelling for sometime through Elysium but not
without rain, which makes me think it was not Elysium,
you arrived on holy ground where you saw, what? "Oer that
lake whose gloomy shore" you saw rising that rugged Cliff
on whose brow the wind whistles shrill
Foaming o'er the fragile skiff
Much I hope is there still
Bravo! a poet.

