St. James's, March 21st
This day the following Address was presented
to the King & read by Mr.. David Barclay; accompanied
by Mr.. Jacob Hagen, Mr.. Thomas Corbyn,
Mr.. John Elliot, Mr.. John Wright, Mr.. Thomas
Knowles, & John Coakley Lettsom. M. D. being introduced
by the Lord of his Majesty's Bed-Chamber
in waiting: which address his Majesty was
pleased to receive very graciously.
To George the third, King of Great Britain
& the dominions thereunto belonging,
The address of the People called Quakers.
May it please the King!
The peaceable principles of Christianity, which
tend to promote the temporal & eternal happiness
of all mankind, render the event of peace peculiarly
grateful to us thy faithful Subjects the People called
Quakers, & we rejoice, that as the father of thy People, thy
mind is relieved from the painful anxiety that
must have accompanied their destruction or distress;
for when we reflect on the dreadful calamities, & the
great effusion of human Blood, which ever attend
the prosecution of war, we deeply lament that any
of the Professors of the Christian Religion should
con

continue a Practice so inconsistent with the doctrines
of Christ, the Prince of Peace. We trust, however, that
in the appointment of Divine Wisdom, the time
will come, when Nation shall not lift up Sword
against Nation, neither shall they learn War
anymore. And it is the fervent Wish of our hearts,
that a zeal for the discouragement of Vice,
Immorality, & Dissipation, & for the promotion
of Righteousness, which exalteth a Nation, may
spread & increase amongst the Inhabitants of
thy Dominions.
Impressed with a thankful sense of the Religious
Privileges which we enjoy under thy Government,
& attached as we sincerely are to thy Person
& Family, it is our earnest Prayer, that the Arm
of Almighty Power may establish thy Throne
in Righteousness & Peace.
Signed on Behalf of the said People, London, the
nineteenth day of the third Month, 1783, by a
Committee of 10 Persons.
His Majesty was pleased to give the following
most gracious answer to the address of the Quakers
I always receive with pleasure your [insertion]appearances of[/insertion] duty and of
of

affection to my person & family; & do so particularly
upon the event of Peace. You may be assured of
my constant protection, as your uniform attachment
to my Government, & yr peaceable disposition
& conduct are highly acceptable to me.

The Quaker's Address to the King.

