he charged me to write to her, and so I will, but will
Elly was so kind as to offer to bring a letter to my mother
dear mother, which tho' short, was very acceptable; Samuel
Sarah Watson brought me a letter from my
here, I know not how long she intends staying.
but I did not see him at all. Rachel Maria Jackson is
meeting, and Samuel in the street. Robert Fayle is also here,
Bewley came; they go this evening, Ponly saw Betsy in
the Committee, but was disappointed. Samuel and Betsy
I expected Fanny Bewley would have been at
thou shouldst accuse me of neglect, which accusation I [insertion]seem to[/insertion] deserve.
now, however I think it best not to put it off any longer, lest
about writing, and I fear I will make but a poor hand of it
forgetfulness, or want of affection, but I really could not set
thee, my dear aunt, but be assured it was not thro'
A long time has elapsed, since I last addressed
Mountmelick 22nd of 7th mo: 1807

to write to my mother yet, so with dear love to all the family,
I have written a good deal, and have to write
not, (I think) have much satisfaction in less.
you all; one month is all I would ask to stay, as I could
of her company when I was at home, I would like to see
I wish to be there; I do wish to see Betsy, I had so little
but I soon find I cannot, and then, [insertion]for[/insertion] I may say
a trip to the Mill, and for a moment think it practicable,
Summer is over; sometimes I think I would like to take
I often wish to see it, and perhaps I will, before the
the school brings it (I think) more into notice, sweet shot!
attentive to her; I hear several friends speak of Ballitore,
visit, she said Betsy Shackleton was very agreeable, and
Heubdah Pim seemed pleased with her little
or is he to return to Liverpool?
is he getting better? Will Ebenezer stay with you entirely,
how is thy stomach? I suppose George is still at home
I hope you are all favoured with good health;
also trouble him with this which I expect her will take.

Governess desires her love all the circle of her friends.
Elizabeth Leadbeater.
as is named I conclude thy very affectionate niece
few lines showed I was not forgotten.
welcome also Mary's and Betsy's
writing to her her letter was very
Please tell Margaret I intend soon

Answered: 22/8 mo:
Mt. Mellick: 22/7 mo: 1807
Elizabeth Leadbeater
Saved by
Samuel Elly
Sarah Shackleton
Ballitore

