2
The Hudson river from its source, down to this City, abounds
in handsome scenery, & is annually visited by
thousands of fashionables, & persons of leisure, who are
induced, either by bad health, or the periodical distaste
for home, to pass some weeks at Saratoga & Ballston
Spas. - Two or three booksellers & amateurs have
lately engaged an able painter, to take Sketches &
finish 24 of the finest views on this river; which
are to be accompanied by a suitable description as
well as historical anecdotes. - It is called the "Hudson
river Portfolio," & will be an expensive work - 4 dollars
for each number, or 96 dolls for the entire. - I expect
however it will be extensively patronized by the
Wealthy, throughout the Country. - I am well acquainted
with the Painter, who is, I am glad to say, a Dublin
man & self taught! so much for the honour of
old Erin! He has shown me some of the numbers
which are really well done. - The Falls of Niagara
are annually more & more frequented, & the
facility with which they can now be visited, is creditable
to the rapid improvement of this great State.
The advantages of a pecuniary nature arising from the
vast number of travellers who throng the roads, are
greater than one might at first suppose & will be
one means of creating new towns & villages in the
Western Country. - In two years more, the Grand
Canal, which is to connect Lake Erie with the Hudson,
will be finished, & then, the resources of New York will

be really immense. - By the late Census, this State has
upwards of 1,300000 Inhabitants, altho' 30 years ago, its
finest section was a perfect wilderness! How strongly
do these things speak in favor of a mild government
& the guarantee of civil & religious rights to all men!
(save [underline]Quakers[/underline] in some respects.) - I regret very much that
in the new Constitution, there should be any stain upon
the otherwise unlimited liberty of Conscience. - but we
must admit, that in a government which is supported
by the sword, it is difficult for legislators who laugh
at [underline]our[/underline] peaceable doctrines, to grant us the liberty we
ask, lest it should be abused by hypocrites. -
Some weeks after my return from the Northward,
I paid a visit to Baltimore on business, and
after I had completed my object, I remained there ten
days, to enjoy the society of my numerous friends. It
is a delightful place to visit, when a person has acquaintances,
for they are extremely hospitable to strangers.
- comparable, in this respect, to Ireland itself. - The
society among Friends is very good & select; - they are
mostly independent in their circumstances, & live comfortably,
but without ostentation. - I became acquainted
with B. Jackson, an eminent merchant there, whose father
was one of the unfortunate heads of the rebellion of "98 -
his wife is a very superior young woman, an American
by birth, but a distant relation of Mrs. Grant, author
of "Letters from the Mountains," - whose taste for literature
she appears in some degree to have caught. - They had

just returned from Europe after 18 months residence [insertion]there,[/insertion] six of
which were passed in Dublin. She was delighted with
every thing in France - save the absence of religious feeling -
& I think has imbibed the[deletion]ir[/deletion] ease of manners, without its
usual folly - of that Nation. Of Dublin, its society, & great
improvements she spoke in warm terms, & declared that
she would willingly have remained longer there, had their
time permitted. I spent the greater part of a forenoon
in her company, & thou may suppose we travelled pretty
generally over Europe, but more especially, Ireland.
While in Baltimore, I also renewed my acquaintance with
a daughter of the unfortunate Oliver Bond, who is
married to a friend with whose relations I am very
intimate. She possesses all the native warmth of an Irish
woman, to which are added a well stored mind & amiable
disposition. I am sure, my old acquaintances in
the "Classic Vale" would be delighted with her, & if ever
she visits Ireland (as she hopes to do) I shall insist
on giving her a letter of Introduction to some of you.
Baltimore has improved rapidly within ten or
fifteen years, & is now one of the finest Cities in the
Union. - It is built on broken ground, which makes
many of its streets irregular, but I think, this circumstance
renders its appearance more picturesque. The
public spirit of its Citizens is evinced, in a most commodious
& elegant Exchange, a fine Court house, several
splendid churches, a Marble Monument 180 feet
high, to the memory of Washington, a battle monument.
commemorating the retreat of the British during the late war

besides two handsome public Fountains. - The Roman Catholic
Cathedral is the grandest House of Worship in the United
States, & attracts the attention of all strangers. - The altar
piece is of superb Italian marble, a present from the Pope,
& at one end of the chapel is a most valuable painting
(the descent from the Cross) a present from the King of France.
The Unitarian Meeting House, for simplicity of architecture
& chasteness of design, is not surpassed in America.
It was built at a very heavy expense, but unfortunately
those who subscribed most largely, have nearly all failed
under rather disgraceful circumstances, & of course brought
discredit on the Congregation: - by the way, here I must
mention a curious fact. The Roman Catholic Cathedral &
Unitarian chapel, are close to each other, but on different
sides of the street. On the latter is inscribed in Greek
"To the one God" - on the former this text from Scripture
"As for us, we preach Christ crucified, to the Jews a
"stumbling block &c". . This, I apprehend has arisen from
design, rather than accident. - The House of Representatives
at Washington, the other day, elected the
Unitarian clergyman of Baltimore, Chaplain to them for
the present Session! Joseph Lancaster lives in
Baltimore, where he has a large school under his care,
but I found, that he is not very popular there. -
He has lately become Editor of a periodical work, somewhat
like a magazine, called the Philanthropist, which
I believe is to be principally filled with Essays on Education.
In the first number, he gives "The Enigma of Enigmas,"
several pages in length, which I am sure I could not

