Dublin 29th of 10th mo: 1843
My dear aunt
I hope I need not assure thee that
thy letter, written by the hand of my dear sister
was truly welcome - it was indeed cause of thankfulness
to be assured by thyself of thy convalescence
which I hope may continue until thou art restored
to thy usual health, and that thou mayst be spared
a little longer to us. Thy illness made us feel how
dear thou art to us, thou, the last of thy generation
I may almost say, yet must not forget dear cousin
Wm Rayner whose annuity becomes due the 1th
of next month, please remind the subscribers
near thee of this: it is very gratifying to them
that by so many of us contributing a trifle each, we
are able to secure a little independence for his age,
so as to make his mind easy at being no longer
able to work. I know my aunt Mary is anxious
to make thee comfortable - she is a kind nurse, as
I have often experienced, & I believe if I had had her
care this last week I should not have been as ill as
I have been, from coming down stairs too soon.
I am still suffering from a severe attack on the
chest, & have a great cough - however this day I feel
as if I were really recovering, my kind husband

sends breakfast to Ellen & myself before we rise.
she is also better. I am sure thou must have
greatly enjoyed Lydia's company, & that of her sweet
girls, it was a rare treat to me - it may be very long
before I enjoy such again. Circumstances alone prevented
my visiting thee during thy illness - I wished to do so
but could not with convenience, however I look forward
to going down when I shall have the lodgings let.
Elizth Cole
29th of 10th mo
1843
Answered 6th/11th
Sarah Shackleton
Ballitore
Sally Neale is in
hallow'een with us
[unclear][/unclear], she is well
town & is to spend
by her own arrangement,
& hearty.
I would like to have my dear love given to cousin
MPike & Betsy Barrington I hope the latter has quite recovered.
I have not heard whether Anne Webb has returned
from visiting her sister Juliot or not. What anguish was
dear Betsy spared. Thomas is at meeting or would
join in dear love to thee with Thy very affte niece
Eliz. Cole

