Ballitore: 14/3 month 1776.
My dear Cousin,
	I have just been reading again the last letter which I received from thee: and the perusal of it causes a fresh Revival of the Sensations accompanying long Friendship, a Friendship combined among our families by manifold ties of early acquaintance, Kindred & affection both natural & spiritual, & strengthened by a participation of mutual Satisfactions & Sorrows, a Friendship begun with the earliest remembrance of some, & which I trust will continue to the latest period of us all. It is good, my dear Friend, to look & lean towards Almighty help in the conducting our family-affairs, in all our ways to acknowledge him, & he will direct our paths: how beautifully the sweet Psalmist of Israel expresses himself, & what encouragement he gives, Because thou hast made the Lord which is my Refuge, even the most high, thy habitation: there shall no Evil befall thee, neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling: for he shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways, &. May this preserving hand, my beloved Cousin, be always about thee & thine! There is a Spirit predominant amongst us as a people, which wanteth to be great, & seeks Exaltation of family & a name in the Earth: this is ravening & grasping, often disappointed, never satisfied: they are like the young lions which the Psalmist says lack & suffer hunger; but (he adds) they that seek the Lord shall not want any good thing.
	The Transaction of a little business has revived a dormant correspondent between our common Friend & me. I did not know but that I had a Frank for him, but not meeting one I trouble thee to forward my letter to him. I leave it open for thy perusal, as it saves me the Repetition of some part of it to thee, & as perhaps it may furnish some little entertainment for thee. The propriety & meaning of some parts of it, & of dwelling so long on a particular subject may not readily occur to thee for want of seeing his letter to which this is a Reply. For several reasons obvious to thy self I doubt not but that thou wilt take care not to let him know that I sent it to thee open.
	We are in general favoured with tolerable health: my Wife pretty often complaining from Flatulencies, or Impediments of digestion, I suppose: but at present is able to go about, manage her garden, oversee her workmen, &c. her Sister confined mostly to the house this long time, but pretty cheery & looks well, her legs fail her much: Aby & Molly bravely, but both of them thin. Sally we hope recovering of a disorder which they call an Erysipelas, & which confined her several days past mostly to her bed. Cousin Sam has got his health of late finely, is bravely recovered of his deafness, gone lately to Athy, in order to accompany thy sister Abby to visit her Sister Watson & family. I was at Derrygarron a few weeks ago, thy Niece Sally was very poorly: Jenny Watson & Nancy Jackson were here since, bring word that she continued much the same way. I hear or see nothing but well of them at Athy. We have the pleasure of the company of some of them now & then: & my Son goes thither pretty frequently, as he & thy Cousin Tom are intimate. I believe Nancy Jackson will accept of John Gatchell of Mountmelick. We all think they will be equally yoked. Jane Watson of Rathrush was lately of her best fashion. Jonathan Watson got out, but looked poorly, his wife complaining & confined. Killconner is completely altered inside & out...We have letters yesterday from our friends the Pims in England; they seem to be generally well, very friendly & affectionate to us...Thou wants to know about Cousin Sally Hall. Her Paramour (Morris Birkbeck, a friend-like, sensible, honest man, who speaks in Meetings) is gone to England, from hence, some time ago, intending (I suppose) to take some place in order to plant a family in, & engage in some business, for which he seems well qualified both with capacity & industry; afterwards to return hither, & make my Cousin his wife. This I believe is his scheme; but they have procrastinated the business so long, that (though it is I am assured by mutual consent) they afford matter for a great deal of talk & some Ridicule, & people are very liberal of their censure on Morris on the occasion of his delay. My Cousin is really an amiable woman, & would prove I think an useful ornament in domestick life...We are not yet determined when our grand affair will be consummated: perhaps 18th of next month, perhaps a week after. Whenever it is to be, it would be considerable satisfaction to have the pleasure of thy company at the solemnity. Our very dear love attends you all, thyself, Father & children. Thine in true affection
Richard Shackleton.


