I am about to produce a new subject,
under which I have for some time laboured;
the propriety of selecting my Dear Cousin Mary
to participate with me in it, she may perhaps doub[unclear]t[/unclear].
- however if no other beneficial effect ensue,
my agitated mind may derive some trifling relief
from imparting it. Twelve months have not
passed over since my wife commenced in a
little dealing way under no unfavourable auspices -
We are now threatened with embarressment
- the sale has materially decreased, owing to
the more tempting offers that are made to the
publick by persons selling goods on Commission.
We have property enough; but if a sale should
be hastily forced, the Goods must be much undervalued
& we shall be stripped of all. If
we could meet with a Friend able to assist
us & inclined to do so I am convinced it
might be done without risque & I would be
enabled to pay Principal & Interest in process

of time. We do not want subsistence out of
the shop, as my income from my own employments
is 140 Guineas per year, & I have every reason to
expect it will be augmented another 100 at
least by additional engagements I am about
to undertake. By Life Insurance I could secure
the person so friendly as to relieve me from
present embarrassment; a slow sale to casual
customers would convert the present stock
of Goods into money & I would take care to
contract no fresh debts. I felt no little
resentment against Jos. Edmonson for the
severity used against me (but I am now disarmed
by hearing of his failing again) He got
my Wife to sign a Note with my name,
which she did ignorant of the consequences:
I was led to believe that the payment would
be made convenient to me, according as the
sale of the Goods produced the Money - but

the Note was passed & when it became due
saddled with the additional charge of Protest
from which the holder derived no advantage
as I was equally liable to the original document
this was done without giving me any notice
or making any application to me. It was
afterwards sent to a third person in Waterford,
who certainly has been indulgent to me by
accepting in part what was converted into
Cash. Say 20 Guineas - about 40 more remain
for which I am liable to daily persecution.
If the other Creditors in Dublin, to whom
we were utter strangers & to whom my wife
offered herself without any introduction - I say
if these prove pressing I dread to imagine
the consequence - I shudder at the idea of
becoming the town talk. I know not how
to make a direct application for pecuniary
assistance - I have done so once to JGrubb

who certainly did one thing that was grateful.
he kept me not in suspense, but informed
me that any thing he did in that way was
confined to his own relations - I then applied
to a Cooper in Penrose's employment who promptly
supplied me with 30 Guineas the sum
required, which enabled me to set up my
Father in Law in the sale of Glass & created
a little establishment out of which it has
been long since paid. I beg to be informed
without loss of time whether any one in Ballitore
considers me in the stile of a relation - or may
I look on myself as an alien & unworthy of
support. Pray write me also on the subject
of the publication I have got names for
about 70 Copies & would procure more
if I knew what reply to make to inquirers.
Waterford 16 Oct 1807
To Mary Leadbeater Ballitore
Adieu Dear Cousin.
Wm Rayner
Wm Rayner
Waterford 16/10 mo: 1807
Ansd 27 -

