cause, and I sincerely hope he may go no farther,
unless indeed he would permit his prayers to
wander beyond the borders of 'Mother Church' &
try his spiritual skill upon the Orange party — if
he could transform them into Patriots, we might
acknowledge his power & thank him! By the
way, his miracles are not confined to Ireland nor
even to Europe — In this degenerated Country of dissenters
where the flock of the [underline]true[/underline] Church is so small, he
has shown the efficacy of his prayers in a marvellous
manner, & what spot do you suppose was selected,
to confound the wise & astonish the worldly great?
no less place than the Federal City of Washington
while it was filled with the "collected Wisdom" of
the Nation! The object of his piety was a married
lady who was of course afflicted with every kind of
disease, & as her friend & herself thought, at the point
of death— she was in this hopeless state on the
eventful day, which the Prince has previously appointed
for American cures, & just like the Dublin miracle,
instead of dying, she arose from her bed perfectly
restored to health & to the astonishment & confusion
of Unbelievers! It was a three day wonder— she
was visited by high & low, sick & poor— & none could
gainsay the miracle— but I have heard of [underline]no[/underline]
conversions in consequence, & the whole affair has
sunk into oblivion, except among the parties interested!
I spent ten days in Washington last winter
at the commencement of the Session of Congress, but
I had no opportunity of hearing any eloquent speeches
delivered, as the business for the first few weeks
was unimportant. I spent a good deal of
time with my old travelling companion Randolph

whom I found as social & entertaining as ever. I shipped
him off for England two weeks ago, in great spirits. I
believe I was the only person in Newyork to whom he
communicated his intentions, & he only arrived here the
day before the Packet sailed. The people were very
curious to know what brought him to Newyork, but
not a hint could they extract from him, & I was bound
to secrecy.- Thou may suppose there was a good deal of
astonishment the morning he embarked, among the crowd
who always assemble to witness the departure of a
Packet ship. He promised me that he would visit
Ireland this summer - if he do - you will hear of him
if not see him. He is a man of great talents, & some
eccentricities.-
I attended the Yearly Meeting
of Philadelphia & remained there a week after it to
pay a few social visits among my friends. The great
number of friends dressed in every variety of costume
forms a curious spectacle to strangers. - I mingled
with some of the "old worthies" whose names are
familiar to you. Richard Jordan, Jesse Kersey, Stephen
Grellet, Wm Jackson,- & from England we had Anna
Braithwaite & Isaac Stevenson.- The latter friends I
understand we useful in healing the breaches
occasioned by difference of opinion on some nice points,
which previously existed— Anna B. has been very
much admired for her suavity of manners as well as
for her eloquence as a Minister. I believe she will return
home this summer.
We have just concluded
[underline]our[/underline] Yearly Meeting: nothing particular occurred
at it, except the frequent disturbance in the

public Meetings of some disowned members, who, pretending
to [underline]special[/underline] missions, spoke a good deal to the
annoyance of the Audience.
We had a great
alarm on first day morning, in our new Meeting house
which was crowded to excess. It has an underground
apartment, & the floor therefore is supported by pillars.
one of those was observed to give way a few inches,
the alarm spread throughout the Audience instantly,
& in a moment all was confusion, shrieking & squeezing.
Fortunately no very serious accident occured, & means
were taken to render the house safe before the
next meeting. Anna Braithwaite was speaking at
the time, but was of course interrupted by
the noise - she & the other gallery friends kept
their seats quietly.-
You will have heard
before this time of poor H. Grattan's death. He was
reduced to a mere skeleton & had suffered much
for months past.- I attended his funeral. William
is doing pretty well as a printer.
I am acquainted with D. Bethune, the gentleman
who married Miss Graham- they caught the spirit
of her Mother; for both are remarkably active in
benevolent institutions - The house of Industry & Orphans
Asylum are yet in existence.- They are about
erecting a House of Refuge for Juvenile offenders
here - it is much wanting, to reclaim the hundreds
of Youths who have none to care for them or
restrain their vices.
I have nothing new
in American Literature to notice— we get our
main supply from Europe, I am anxious to see
Moore's "Capt. Rock."
Please to present my
affectionate regards to all my Ballitore friends, not
omitting Anna Taverner & H. Haughton, whom I hope are in their
best fashion- & believe me to be thy affecte friend Jacob Harvey

Mary Leadbeater
Post Office
Ballitore

