Dear Cousin,
Abby took a walk hither from home yesterday
in the afternoon & brought me thy acceptable favour.
Thy concern for thy little Son in very justifiable, as it is bound
& by a proper resignation to the divine disposal, & thou must
be more than woman, (or shall gray less) not to exercise an
anxious affection over so amiable a child. Cousin Abbey I
suppose will write thee everything relating to his health,
so I need not repeat it, only to say that it is not in the least
impaired, he improves daily in beauty (which is properly
health when I speak of a boy), in spirits & in the good graces
of all around him.
As to his learning he is rather at a stand, as he is busy
laying in some useful grammatical rules & like building
the underground work of what will in time be (I hope) a
beautiful fabrick, these he was somewhat imperfection, the
acquisition of them is irksome at least to one who may seem
to have made some advances already, but they encrease in
use in proportion as they diminish in shew, the rudiments of
every Art are in some respects contempteble. John is backward
in his writing, when we that with his other acqu[insertion]i[/insertion]rements,
which indeed do honour to his teacher & his own extraordinary
understanding. A good deal of his improvement in
the

the language will depend upon this in writing exercises &
translations. But at present John is divided between the
cares of the School & the cares of the woman, which thou
knows are enough to [underline]distract[/underline] one. I know not what else is
necessary to write thee of him. His Grandmother came
to see him which pleased him, but he does not mind women
old or young.
We had a letter from father yesterday, he wrote of much
satisfaction in the entertainment he met with from friends
of Londo particularly Dr Fothergill, whom he consulted
concerng our invalids, Sister Debby &c. he was to leave Londo
the 14th with S: Neale & J: Abell bend his course towards
Woodbridge & Norwich to the general meetings there. His
going to York he said was yet among the uncertainties.
He was in good health, but felt a little awkward in his situation,
being so long from home & hurry.
Robert Lecky came here on Seventh day & brought sister
Grubb with him in his carriage, she & Sam had been there on
a visit, he staid first day & goes this morning, in the interim
wrote a mighty pretty letter to his son John, recommending
him to improve the present oppo. of the friends' company, desiring

that he might buy Eye-salve at the expence of all worldly enjoyments,
& frequently repeating that his children were all the treasure
he had in this world He is a wonderful man!
I am obliged by thy account of the Friends, shall be pleased
to hear from thee when convenient how thy father is of his
Rheumatism & poor James who was taken by the throat. As
thou art so scrupulous I send franks.
The Child mends from the Small pox, none other has taken
it here, tho' it rages all around us.
Mother &c. wish to be held in remembrance by thee, with
Ballitore 17 / 6 mo. 76.
thy affect Cousin
Abm Shackleton

Deborah Christy

