Richmond 10 m 18. 1822
My dear friend
I am quite ashamed of having
so long neglected to comply with thy request and can
offer no excuse but my natural laziness at letter writting
however I should not have defered it so long if James
had not written to Lydia and of course informed you
of my safe arrival at home, where we found all well
except my father who indeed [deletion]was bett[/deletion] we found better
than we expected, he is now well enough to go to town
but has still to be careful of himself, I believe our
coming home had some effect on his recovery as he seems
to improve from that time; he was disappointed at
Thomas's not coming with us but was quite satisfied when
he heard the reason of it. I had as lonesome
a journey coming home as I had going to Ballitore not
having any one in the coach with me until we got within
3 miles of Limerick when two gentlemen came in but

did not speak one word to me. I slept more comfortably
at Mountrath than I expected I could at
an inn. I was sorry we did not stay another
hour with you as we were near 1 1/2 hour waiting for
the coach at Monastireven. Lydia did not stay
long after us in Ballitore, you must be very lonesome
after her, but I think you cannot regret her absence
as it must be such a gratification to Sarah to have
her with her. Jacob Harvey and his sister Hannah
went to Cork last 3rd day week, the former intends
meeting his father and mother at the Waterford meeting and
returning to Cork to bring Hannah home next week.
We regret losing so much of his company but must
not be too selfish of it; we have some hopes of being
able to prevail not him to remain with us for the winter
Anne Grubb left Limerick this morning, I expect
not without regret, she seems very much attached to it
and seems much liked here, she breakfasted with us and
I was quite pleased with her conversation as it was
about Ballitore, which is a subject I like to talk on and

I am glad to meet with any one who has been there.
It is very often in my thoughts and I shall never
forget the kindness and attention of its hospitable inhabitants.
We had a meeting of the Bible
Society here yesterday for the purpose of forming a
branch in this city it was attended by several members
from Dublin three of whom spoke for some time.
it is intended to form a Lady's committee which
has been very successful in several other places
I hope their exertions may be successful, but
am afraid from the general character of the citizens
that their zeal will cool, as on such occasions
they are always very sanguine at first but
soon get tired. My father and uncle Harvey
are the only friends on the mens committee.
Give my dear love to thy husband, thy sister Sally,
Elizabeth, Deborah and Ebinezer, and to all my kind
friends at the mill and the school not forgetting
my brother the usher and tell him if he writes to me I
intend to write to him. With very dear love to thyself
I remain thy ever affectionate
Hannah Fisher

Mary Leadbeater
EE-

