Lisburn 6 mo 20th 1809.
I have now, my dear Friend, to thank
thee for two kind letters. The poem in the first letter
by W Wordsworth is objected to by the proprietors
of the Magazine as it has before appeared in print.
The other poem will be inserted with the alteration
of one line which was objected to, and the Editor of
the Magazine altered it from
"And the thought that now vibrates my ear,"
to "And the thought that now thrills on my ear,"
as the thought could not be said to [underline]vibrate[/underline] unless
the writer spoke aloud. I hope this alteration will
not be displeasing to thee or thy friend. I think the
poem will not appear this month, for a good deal
of poetry has been received lately - I think the ballad
will certainly be inserted this month; I will have
Bridget put as the signature, as the poetry relates
to ancient Irish history - I never received Deborah's
versification of Ossian's address to his shield,
but I would be much obliged to thee to send it to
me, at any time thou has leisure, Thy work will
I have been reading a very strange sort of book entitled Harriott's Struggles
through life - I am highly amused with it - if it is all truth he has
had a wonderful life - I hope another of the Ballitore Magazines
will soon make its appearance - I hope the Editors will be kind
enough to gratify us with it shortly - How are Barclay & Thomas
Clibborn - they used to be very fine boys - I had a letter from their
mother since her return home from Ballitore - she writes quite
delighted with Betsy Shackleton - she wishes me very much to go to
Hall, but our journey to Leinster is entirely over for this summer,
& I fear to indulge hopes of next summer lest I should again be
disappointed - However Hope is a wonderful comforter; and I will
hope to see you all, and my aunt Clibborn - I am very sorry
Ben Haughton has left the North. - He is a great favorite with us all -
I think I hear thee say - "have compassion on my eyes." I will my
dear Friend: and I will only request thee to give my dear love to Betsy &
Mary Shackleton, Elizabeth & Deborah & Margt. Shackleton - no one else

be announced in the next magazine, but the printers
name cannot be added as that would subject
them to the advertisement duty - but the printers
name is not material.
I had heard of R. Barbauld's death some months
ago, but I had never heard the melancholy circumstances
attending it until I received thy letter -
When we were in England nearly three years ago, we
dined at his house; I admired him much more than
I admired his wife - Mr. Barbauld was unassuming
and unaffectedly polite, but his diffidence, & high deference
for the opinion of his wife and the Aikin
family prevented him from shining in conversation
when they were present. Mrs Barbauld had a kind of
[underline]literary coquetry[/underline] & [underline]literary arrogance[/underline] which I did
not like. her niece & nephews Dr. Aikin's daughter & 3
sons, and a daughter of the celebrated Gilbert Wakefield
who is since married to Dr. Aikin's second son, dined
there also - We were introduced to them by Geo Dyer
a very eccentric poet, who lives like a hermit surrounded
by his books in the middle of the bustle of
London. He often visited us at our lodging & entertained
us very highly - after I left London G Dyer sent me the
is acquainted with me it is so long since I was in Ballitore - Indeed I
seem to think I am very well acquainted with Elizabeth, Deborah &
Margaret - but I am still going on tiring thy eyes so farewell
my dear Friend most sincerely & affectionately S Hancock

poem inserted in the 1st mo. of the Magazine entitled
Independence. I think that Mrs Barbauld & the Aikin's
imagine they are superior in knowledge & genius to the
whole world; the opinions they adopt seem to be delivered
with the greatest dogmatism - Altho' they certainly have
genius yet a little modesty would not do them the least
harm. Arthur Aikin seemed to take particular pleasure
in ridiculing the Irish - this piece of rudeness I did not
relish very much - A few days after dining at Stoke
Newington we dined at Tottenham with Priscilla Wakefield,
and I could not help drawing a comparison between
her and Mrs. Barbauld very much in favor of the former,
whose pleasing manner and instructive conversation,
was far more pleasant to me. I am very glad to
hear that Betsy Shackleton succeeds so well in her
benevolent plans - Please give my dear love to her & tell
her I am wishing for a letter from her - I have been reading
the memoirs of Frederick & Margt Klopstock translated
mostly from the German by thy friend Bess Smith,
I do not admire it near as much as the very interesting
account of Bess Smith's life - Sydney Owenson does not seem
tired of writing romantic nonsense, for I hear she is
engaged in another novel - Hast thou read Ida ? I am very
sure thou will not admire it - Miss Balfour has been
in Belfast for some weeks, on account of bad health; she
is now much better - Her poems are not yet put to press.

Did Betsy Shackleton receive a long letter from me which went
enclosed in the parcel of Magazines to Carlow? Since writing
the above a proof sheet of the poetry for this month's magazine
has arrived; the ballad by Bridget; Insensibility by Flora, and the
lines on the Solitaire are inserted - The extracts from the Ballitore
Magazine this month are the Allegory by Florella; on tobacco
by the Irishman & Flora - & the Dialogue by Sylvia - We put these
names to prevent criticism by some who would have no mercy
on them if the writers were known to be [underline]young[/underline] ladies -
The paper on tobacco was very much liked at the last meeting
of the Magazine proprietors - Some lines in the dialogue are left
out as it was feared they were too strong, I pleaded for the
insertion as they exactly suited my sentiments, but my father
still urged his fear of Newgate - How did thou like the little
tour in Scotland? There is a very interesting ramble from
Carrickfergus to Antrim in this magazine - the distance is a few
miles but the writer has contrived to make it very interesting - Town
LISBURN
Mary Leadbeater
Ballitore
and descriptions of towns, countries &c are
very much wished for by the Magazine
Co & the generality [unclear]of readers[/unclear]are fond
of such things - I am [unclear][/unclear] ashamed of
this blotted letter.
S: Hancock
Lisburne: 20 / 6 mo : 1809
Ansd - - - 14/7 -

