

        From the same to the same 
                                                Ballitore: 10/12 month 1781


My dear James,
        I received thy letters in course, and am well-pleased that thou art yoked in service ss - I know it is humiliating to be the object of scorn & censure, but the disciple is not to be above his master, nor the servant above his Lord. I believe it is right that this thing should befall thee, that thou might become "more vile & base in thine own sight" - With all thy low times & thy complaining language, & the peculiarities of thy trials & proving, thou art a favoured man, & if it be not thy own fault, I believe thou wilt be more & more so. Watch & be sober. Do not be carried away out of thy own sphere by the vortex of another. Do not allow thyself liberty according to the Liberty of another - Keep to thy own exercise, wear thy own concern till the right time for casting it off - If thou hast a little burden of a word to drop in the simplicity, look not at the bulk of it, but at its weight. Drop it where thou thinks it best so to do, & then bound any reflections of thy own about it. If thou hast done well, thou wilt be accepted & feel the acceptance - if otherwise, the Rod & Reproof in thy own bosom will give wisdom against another time, & thou will not be as a child left to himself, which bringeth his mother (the Church) to shame. The account of your progress is very agreeable to us - I doubt not but Edith will fare much the better for [page number] 205 having none but striplings along with her - The supply of lesser streams being cut off will be likely to attract her with stronger necessity to the spring, and to fix her dwelling beside it. There has been too much of a crying out "help, help" among the labourers, one to another, instead of waiting in a sense of their own helplessness for the help of the Lord Almighty. And He, who is jealous of his own honour, & sees the secret movements of the heart, has not blest in so full a manner, nor added so great a degree of his own strength, as would have been the case, if the servant had entirely looked & turned to Him alone.


SSJoined with Edith Lovell in visiting friends families in Cork.
