11th mo 7th 1778
My dear Cousin,
I received thy very affectionate & consolitary
letter, for which I am much obliged to thee, the day after my dear
Sisters departure out of this World of troubles: We had not any expectation
of her recovery for near a week before & indeed very little after
her disorder was known to us, the violent manner in which
she was attacked did not allow us the least gleam of hope. Notwithstanding
she suffered exquisite pain to the last, not getting
a moment ease for near a fortnight only when asleep, yet was
favoured with her senses till within a few hours of her death (except
a day or two when she had convulsions) which was a great
comfort to us all, we have reason to be thankful that she was
relieved from her sufferings by death, much sooner usual in this
disorder. Infinite Wisdom deprived us of the dear child for
wise purposes & tho' the loss be very afflicting yet I hope we
will be favoured with resignation, knowing that all his
dispensations are ordered for our good tho' we may not be sensible
of it of present. I believe the cup of unmixed happiness
is by no means a draught suitable for our natures nor such are
we are at all to expect on this side of Eternity, but may we
all

all endeavour by a perfect resignation to the will of Heaven &
a watchful care over our fitness to gain that blessed after we
have finished a life of probation here. That Invisible & Almighty
Hand who has so graciously supported my dear Mother
in all her afflictions hitherto is not yet shortened & I hope
will be her Comforter under this severe trial; she seemed willing
to resign her child into the hands of Him who gave her, but
her death it self was easier for us to bear than to see her enduring
tortures (as she herself often expressed it.)
I think thy brother seems enclined to continue the Siege
a while longer, perhaps after holding [insertion]out[/insertion] so long, Lydia may at length
capitulate. But what sort of sentiments are these thou hast
imbibed? cruel, hardhearted, to keep a poor young man so long
in the tortures of suspense, now do tell me candidly if thou loved
him as one ought to love the man they would take to be the guide
& director of their lives, the partner of all their joys & afflictions
couldst thou find in thy heart to keep him thus suspended
between hope & fear, month after month & year after year.
As I have to write to cousin T. Chandler, thou must excuse me
from enlarging at present, after giving my dear love to thy
father, Mother, & all the family, I shall conclude in near affection
thine, M Christy

P.S. My Mother says [unclear]her method[/unclear] of preparing Fullers earth
is this, Put the Fullers earth in a little water & boil it then
dry it well & pound it, after which it is to be wet with the
Turpentine: - But I had like to have forgot, I have
a request to make of my dear cousin, which if she will be so
good as to comply with, I will be exceedingly obliged to her, it
is to write a few lines by way of an elegy on my poor dear Sister.
It is a shame to give thee this trouble, but as thy poetry & particularly
the elegy's please me extremly, I was anxious to have one
on her of thy writing. Adieu dear Molly. I had like to have
forgot to tell thee that my brother arrived here safe 6th day.
Stramore 11th 7th 1778.

Mary Shackleton
Margaret Christy
Stranmore 7/11 mo: 1778
Answered 18/3 mo: 1779

