Ballitore: 30/10 mo: 1779.

	I am indebted to my dear Cousins of 9th instant - I know of little that I have to say in return; but as avocations of one sort or other come to prevent writing, I sit down to converse a little with thee when I can. I make no doubt but thou hast heard that my Wife &Molly got home safe from Dublin about three weeks ago. The former has been a good deal hampered in Dublin & since her return with the tooth-ache; but is better of that complaint, & (through the Kindness of Providence) tolerably well. Molly has also for the most part continued to recruit finely, takes the air in the chaise when the weather suits, but has not yet ventured out to Meeting. We thankfully hope our poor child is restored to us for a good end -- She was finely as to her speech; but we think her not so clever at it of late as she was - but she is much better in that respect than she used to be, & we hope when she gets confirmed health, when her organs grow stronger, & she established Recovery will admit of her renewed application to the means prescribed for her by Angrier, that she will regain what she may have lost by her late tedious, painful, trying indisposition -- The rest of us are also favoured with health -- My Debbys face in good plight this long time - the last accounts from my daughter Peggy were also agreeable & pleasing -- My Son & his Lydia are going on I think very well - he is much the object of my anxious desires, & I trust they will be mercifully answered in his preservation from evil & capacity to serve our common Lord & gracious Benefactor in his generation; for it is but servile work to be wholly ingrossed in serving ourselves, & accumulating a great deal more than a Little Sufficiency of this uncertain worlds uncertain goods -- Lydia is I think clever, notable, & attentive in her department - her sister is with her at present, but does not like long confinement to one place - she is a free good-humoured Girl I think: her principal foible seems a passion for dress, an engine of Salon which has slain its thousands I fear among our youth. The Lord rebuke, & cast out this evil spirit from among us, if it be his will! Lydia is become pretty plain in her apparel, gentle as usual in her manners, & very sociable & agreeable among us - She advances in her pregnancy, & I believe in a few weeks will have occasion for the aid of Doctor Smith of Maryborough (a person of good fame among the women, that has two sons at school here) whom they seem to have concluded to employ as Accoucheur: It runs in my head that we shall have a little Margaret --Abraham has just set off to meet Thomas Greer at Killconner-side -- I received a challenge from Thomas from Waterford, to meet him in the County Wexford, but his Letter having been detained on the way did not reach me in time; so I mist the opportunity of paying that mark of Esteem & affection to a person whom I look on as the first of our Religious society in this nation; if I go no farther, to keep within the bounds of moderation -- And yet this great & good man no doubt has his failings, his weak side, & is subject to like passions with ourselves -- I have not yet seen him in this last excursion of his, but purpose to be with him in a day or two, if all be well -- Joseph Inman left him in the county Wexford, spent the other night with us on his return home -- brought an account of Thomass welfare & good service -- I suppose ye have heard of Samuel Nottingham, his wife & brother being arrived in Cork - *the last dangerously ill in a decay -- I hear the two former intend to pass most of the winter there -- Perhaps may from thence remove to settle in England -- I have yet heard no accounts from them concerning the troubles in America, but apprehend our friends there continue under great Suffering -- I have account that Thomas Colby had met with a civil reception in that distant part of the globe from the descendants of Friends & others, that he had had several meetings, but that the people appeared to be surprisingly ignorant of the Principle of Truth -- I really cannot be positive that Thomas Carrington has yet sailed for America, though he was escorted to the port -- I rather question it -- I hear Hannah Brown died suddenly - & that

[written on the left margin] I since understand that the friend Joseph Nottingham died 27th inst.

that poor Mabel Wighams family have been lately much distressed in their circumstances through the positiveness, &c. of her husband -- The family of English Pims are settled in a convenient little house at Tottenham which is taken for a year. They are near the meeting-house, & near Morris & Sally Birkbecks -- The head of the family was for a while rather low in spirits, but I suppose has resumed his wanted courage & confidence -- I was at Athy 24th inst. Thy Mother bravely there, Tommy complaining, the rest pretty well I think -- Abby has not been yet here to see Molly -- Perhaps we may see her here tomorrow. I hear Jenny Watson has left her brother Harrys (it was high time) & lives at her brother Isaac Jackson's -- I also hear that Molly Ridgways son has come to age, & has settled accounts with his mother & done every thing in that respect to the satisfaction of his friends, & even exceeded their desire. But still he looks a raw, instable, undisciplined, wildish Creature. Samuel Elly Junr. is about being married to Jenny Beale of Cork -- I hear nothing of late of John & Louisa -- I wish they were both together, or each asunder disposed of out of our way, in the line of right direction. Cousin Sam Carleton dined with us to day, was very cheerful, yet rather breaks, does not complain of his head I think of late, but sometimes of a disorder in his bowels. His dear love is to you all. Several friends in this country have been applyd to for money to cloathe the men embodied in these military associations. I believe Friends have mostly declined a compliance. Some are fearful of doing any thing which may encourage a violation of our Christian testimony against wars: others do not like to spend their money either for or against the Truth - if they do not regard the testimony, they regard their money: & though they will not contend much for the former, they will strive ^hard^ to keep the latter. Tis true a liberal subscription was made in England among Friends in order to buy flannel waist-coats for the soldiery employ'd against the Rebels in the last Rebellion, & the Lawfulness of cloathing those who are our friends & risque their lives in our defence, as well as of administering food food to our enemies as enjoined in holy writ, is a matter which may admit of candid deliberation -- I expect it will be the subject of deep consultation at our approaching Solemnity, & I heartily desire that the Wisdom which is from above may preside & prevail. Hiring men to fight in our defence, or purchasing offensive arms for them cannot be consistent with our Christian principles. I know not whether thou ever saw the inclosed Narrative of a Conversation between Samuel Tothergill & Admiral Tyrell, as related by Samuel to Robert Dudley -- I am glad ye are likely to get your Meeting-house, & a suitable road to it; I wish you all to be in the high road to heaven -- I do not presume to expect that the few little hints dropt by us little people when amongst you contributed in any perceptible degree to the great end of making Peace: but if we acted under the influence & direction of the Great Master, it is enough for us: and this text of Scripture is worthy of observation,  He that heareth you heareth me: & he that despiseth you, despiseth me: and he that despiseth me, despiseth him that sent me.
	It is very agreeable to hear that ye are all tolerably well except Molly MccLaughton, who I hope has got better again -- I hope the children will be prudently careful not to incur danger by getting cold; & then though they may not be of athletick consitutions, they may hold out as well as those that are. Good Providence is all sufficient to preserve their bodies, & (what is of infinitely greater importance) their immortal souls -- All our very dear love attends thee & them. Our dear love to thy father, brothers, sisters, thy uncle Morton, Molly Phelps, Aby Atkinson, & any of our friends & acquaintance there, to whom thou may know that it would be acceptable.
	I am, My dear friend,
			thy truly affectionate Kinsman
					Rich Shackleton.

*I do not inclose the Narrative
as
Cousin Abby tells me that
thou hast it already
thy truely affectionate kinsman
Richard Shackleton.
[witten on the left margin]
31/10mo. In mentioning the distressed circumstances of Mabel Wighams family I might have added that several friends (I understand) had joined in a Subscription (I believe mostly in England) for Mabels Support, accounting to about  a Year -- I hear that the convinced Soldier (by name Hastie) has been discharged (bought off I suppose for about 2 Guineas), & is now in Waterford, where it is likely he will follow his trade of a Weaver-

