My dear Cousin,                                                  Ballitore: 26/2 month 1778
		Thy acceptable letter of 4th instant came to hands. Having so little matter to furnish out entertainment in return, I believe I would not write now, but that the women want me to consult thee about thy son John, & I would do a great deal to get rid of the womens importunities. The Case is, the small-pox is likely to be brought into our town, & next door to us (to Andrew Wilsons) by Inoculation. The Women have taken into their heads that the infection is most dangerous to a sound person when communicated from a person inoculated, so they think it best that John should be removed hence when the Infection is brought: & as thou thought of taking him home to see you in summer, tis proposed to thee whether it would not be better to have him home now, & bring him with thee back to the ensuing half-years meeting, when probably the infection may be over here  Or whether thou would choose to have him sent out of the way to Athy during the infection. Thy Sentiments on this head are requested as soon as thou canst determine, I suppose the Inoculation is to be performed about the beginning of this ensuing month. John is at present (thank Providence) well & hearty.
	My wife & I were yesterday to see the wife of Alexander Shelly Junior, who appears in a dying way in a consumption, married about five years, bore four children, suckled three of them. I suppose it proved too hard for her constitution. We met Abby coming hither. She would return with us, went to see the sick person along with us, & came back with us last evening; my son is gone to Athy with her this afternoon. Thy mother is with my sister Carleton, who has been but poorly of late, has had Billy Graham from Carlow to visit her, was bled, puked, &c. Hope she is better again. Thy Mother is in general finely, but (as Peggy writes me of her son) is bold, & has a will of her own. She will be going out into the garden, if it be tolerably fair, daddling about, & searching for flowers: if it be showery, she must go out to peep for Rain-bows: if it be day, she must be poring down at the fruits of the earth; if it be night, she must be peering at the stars. She is exceeding-good company, & we would be lonesome, or at least appear so without her. Peggy is not yet come to us, & I know not when she will. however, they still talk of it. Her brother John Grubb has (I suppose) at last hopes of succeeding with Sally Pim. If the match goes on, there is talk of Sam Grubb & his sister Becky going over to the wedding. I believe Lucy Strangman is a sincere, upright, downright woman, & doubt not but she acts an honest, plain, open & candid part with John Conran - but John has let in notions (whether well or ill-founded I do not take upon me to determine) which I believe another person would find it hard to remove - I do not think she is any way vain of shewing him in her net.
	We are generally favoured with tolerable health - the boys finely thro mercy) - A neighbour of ours a Gentleman so called (Carroll) in a drunken fit lately going to bed (I suppose) fell in the fire, his wife who was near her time was greatly alarmed & endeavoured to help him - he was saved, but her labour came on soon after, she was delivered, & died. She is much regretted, was Bagenals sister.) Our dear love attends you all -
		I am, my dear Debbys
										affectionate kinsman
										    Richard Shackleton
