My dear Cousin,                                                Ballitore: 19/12 month 1776.
	That I might not without necessity put thee to unnecessary expense, I delayd a few days writing till Privilege would be in. I now gratefully acknowledge the Receipt of the Bill for the amount of my account, for which I purpose to send inclosed my Receipt. My wife tells me since of a piece of Lawn got from thee which I either did not recollect, or had not heard of when I wrote last to thee, otherwise would have directed the cost to be deducted; which please do not omit, if we live another half-year to balance the current account. Thou hast a just right & a hearty welcome to make any remarks respecting the education of thy son, or the Expences attending, which occur: I think it is even a duty incumbent on thee so to do. On our part, I hope we will endeavour to have any thing that appears wrong, explained to thy satisfaction, or amended in future. Indeed this is no more than we do by all our employers, & certainly thou hast an equal right with others...I have talked a good deal to our Tailors about the Quantity of cloth which thou took notice of: & indeed they gave me a Quantity of words & arguments in return, which I confess I am not able to set forth, such is their volubility of speech, & the peculiarity of their phraseology. I also held a contest with the shoemaker, who rather exceeds the Tailor in Argumentation: I have observed shoemakers to be generally very clever in that way. However, on the whole, John is much grown, leather is much risen. I believe the Exceedings were not very great, & I hope we will be as tight as we well can with them in future...I do not find there was any change made by the Physician who supplyd some pills for John: & as to his pocket-money; sister Carleton had the distribution of it to him, & when I hear of his Fund being out; I mean to give him two, or three pence weekly. He is (thank Providence) well, hearty & in every respect agreeable to me. I am afraid to say, or even think too much of him, disappointments come so like a whirlwind. The child is exceedingly near & dear to me: But we have all need to witness a taking deeper root in the ground of Divine Love, & to have our affections to created objects bounded by it, that so when the storms of Adversity assault, our spirits may know a stability & support in the day of trouble, which nothing less can procure for them: that when the World speaks Trouble, Christ Jesus may speak Peace to our tossed minds. May this continue to be thy anchor, & thy Refuge, my dear Friend! As men & women, we are fallible, & diversified as to Tempers, habits & dispositions, so that even the children of the heavenly family may differ in sentiments & opinions about earthly things: but as these cannot live without getting their food in due season, their participation together at the Lords Table renews their Amity & Brotherly kindness, & the love of God melts down the hardness of the natural part, so that in Malice they are Children, & love as Brethren: that is, their falling-out is like that of little children, a little pettish fit, & soon over, & their love to one another is like that of Brethren & sisters of the same family, in which an elder or wise child may exhort, reprove, & ^even^ correct a younger, or more giddy one, but still the brotherly-kindness & common Good of the family be uppermost, & the bond & cement of the whole.
	My family is at present favoured with health: my eyes are of late days finely. My wife of her best fashion, clever within doors & without, at home & abroad: my son (& his Subalterns) has the burden of the Tuition part of the Business upon him, & manages very notably: my daughter Deborah is following (I believe) Dr Fothergills prescription, her face but poorly, her spirits sometimes good, sometimes just middling: she is a valuable girl. Molly is very thin, her speech but indifferent: her poetical faculty continues. Sally is a sprightly, little domestick animal; I think something like her sister Peggy in parts & disposition. Peggy by last accounts was pretty well I believe: Thy good hopes concerning her comfort me. Sister Carleton much the old way, gets out in the chaise for an airing sometimes, & sometimes to Meeting...Thy intelligence communicated about thyself, about thy brother James, & other matters is very agreeable. Thou canst hardly be too minute to a friend who interests himself in what concerns thee, as I do. I think thou did not mention how thy son Joseph is now. We expect to have thy Mother here soon. All our dear love is to thee & thine. Remember us very kindly to thy Father. Sam,
My dear Deborah,
thy affectionate kinsman
Richard Shackleton
