My dear sister,
his appearance, I thought I would being a letter to
thee to send by him, & inform of our getting agreeably
here against tea-time. Helena Shaw & I lay together
but did not sleep much, watching for early rising:
Susanna poorly this morning, Abram & I breakfasted
together pleasantly. To meeting, - a very trying one to
me: - Oh for [underline]certainty[/underline]! I visited Sally Grubb & her
sweet little Joseph, - they look very sweet: - Mary
Dudley quiet poorly hoarse & pale, in trouble about
Phebe Brian who is dangerously ill. I visited our
old friend Betty Wilson who looks very poorly, she
shewed me M L's letter to her - I mean to copy
it for thee. I settled with cousin S. J. G to go home
with her tomorrow & stay till 1st day morning.
Dearly farewel
A letter from M:L says, "I am certain, I think, that
"sister Margt. is expected at Debby Wilson's, & that it
Clonmel: 21/12 mo: 1809.
Brother Saml. having made
S: S.
"will

"will be a great disappointment if sister does not lodge
"with them, & I hope she will not think of changing."
M: L, to E: W.
Dear Friend of youth & childhood's pleasant day,
Remember'd well, though distant far away,
The pure example of thine equal mind,
Thy tender love, thy conduct ever kind,
By Memory's pensive eye are oft review'd
And early Friendship fondly is renewed.
O could that friendship mitigate the Smart,
Of the deep pang which rends thy bleeding heart,
Then should these tears be dried, these sorrows cease,
And that lov'd bosom rest in perfect Peace,
But 'tis from Heaven along that Balm must flow,
Which stills the throbbings of so keen a wo,
While thy meek Soul, submissive to his Will
Shall hear the voice which bids the waves be still.
Beloved in life, lamented when she lay
Silent & cold, to Fever's rage a prey

While the fond parents stretch their Arms in vain,
Their dearest treasure longer to detain,
Your darling daughter never must return,
Yet not as those who hope no more, you mourn,
For her no blush a Mother's cheek distain'd,
No sting of shame a father's bosom pain'd,
No longer trembling for her future fate,
then resign her to an happier state,
Possess your Souls in patience - He is near,
Who knows the Sorrows of the heart sincere
And grants it strength what He ordains to bear.
Mary Leadbeater.

Mary Leadbear to
Eliz Wilson
on her daughters
[deletion]death[/deletion]
Margaret Grubb.

