My dear Cousin,
Ballitore: 22/8 month 1779.

       			My wife & I were in Dublin (2d instant) when we received thy last acceptable Letter of 26th ultimate - We got safe & well home & 4th instant & to appearance found all well. We left our companion in her own habitation of her best fashion I think - For the help every way extended to us I wish us to be truly, humbly thankful. We were in the County Wexford when we heard of the mortality upon mortality which were allotted your trials. We lay a night at thy uncle Smithson's, another at John Wright's. Thy aunt Smithson looked not badly, yet spoke of her infirmities, & her expectation that her dissolution was not far distant. Whenever it shall come; I believe she is ready: & the good old man I believe is also prepared - they came both to John Wright's Meeting, thy aunt with my wife in the chaise: the two honest women took a solemn, tender leave of each other at parting - probably the last in time. The old & young couple I believe agree very well together now in their divided house. Poverty keeps down the poor, little gentry. Ben has 2 or 3 of the sisters upon him. I suppose they can get nothing from their brother for any purpose. Fuller has been sued (I understand) by the fellow who married another of the sisters for her fortune. If this be paid by compulsion, probably the rest may be got in like manner from Fuller, who is said to be a very wicked, profligate man & likely to be reduced to a low state of life -- Abby Wright is grown a fine, personable, well-behaved young-woman - her mother great with child - I believe the Son who married his ^own^ first-cousin is kept at a distance by his parents pretty much: but the father's executorship-business about Stephens occasions interview & dealings between him & his Son - Some way, there is not right harmony among them there - Peggy Stephens & her brother John do not hit it together right, though they visit & speak - she is too easy & pliable about her children, & he is too stiff & tenacious about himself - This difference, hardness, shyness, where it gets in & makes a lodgement, effectually drives out all that is good - People may be moral in their lives, plain in their appearance, orthodox in their opinions, & even active in Religious Society; yet if this Charity, this pure Love of God & Man, which is of Divine original, be wanting, what are they? Not Christians I fear in reality - At least some have not so learned Christ. My beloved friend, keep thou much alone, & unconnected in fellowship of spirit with any, except such as thy spirit is drawn near to in the deeps of humbling Baptism. This wait for often: be this thy home; where thou will find Charity to begin, & to diffuse itself in thy mind, & spread towards the household of Faith, & Mankind in general. In this state thou wilt see what is thy duty, & be fitted for the performance of it. Make no more vain excuses, nor be reasoning as with flesh & blood, adopting imaginary notions, & on these forming thy relative religious-conduct. The Lord, whom I trust, my very dear Cousin, we would wish to serve, is gracious indeed & merciful, & long-suffering, yet ^we^ may weary him as it were with our Reluctances & disobedience: as he complained of his people formerly, "Thou hast not brought "me the small cattle of thy burnt-offerings, neither hast thou honoured me with thy sacrifices". Even the small cattle he does not despise at the hand of his own Poor: they offer according to their little ability, & therein they rejoice, & as they continue faithful will witness an increase of their joy. Happy indeed above all people are the Lord's Servants: he has himself pronounced, & discriminated their happiness, in contrariety to others, Behold, my Servants shall eat, but ye shall be hungry: behold, my Servants shall drink, but ye shall be thirsty: behold, my Servants shall rejoice, but ye shall be ashamed: behold, my Servants shall sing for joy of heart, but ye shall cry for sorrow of heart, & shall howl for vexation of spirit." This subject has quite unexpectedly turned up - I will leave it, & make no apology to so near & dear a friend.
Thy detail of the latter end of our dear child, & of thy support at the most needful time, as also the communications which thy Sister Abby gave us on the subject were very affecting: not less so to many others would be the Account of the sudden Removal of thy friend & neighbour from her numerous change. We can truly say we sorrow for thy loss, & abstractedly from our tender friendship for thee, & long connection with thee, we greatly regret this dispensation of Infinite Wisdom on account of our own very affectionate feelings, hopes & prospects -- But, it is finished: And all no doubt is well.
       	Trouble comes in rotation to us all in one shape, or other. Our dear friends the family at Tanner's end have been closely visited by it -- John Pim Joshua has been long dabbling (I understand) in Change-alley among the Stock-jobbers, he met with some losses before, but lately I believe has lost more than his All. The debt, being what is called a debt of honour, cannot legally touch his effects but not to pay it is deemed highly disgraceful. But as it would be equally, if not more disgraceful & unjust to abandon such a family to famine & poverty, I suppose their friends there will get him to make a previous provision for the helpless & unprovided part of it. Joss says he is this good while quite unconnected with his father, Joseph lives with Joss: Johny is I believe settled some time past in business for himself in London with good prospects & good friends surrounding him. William has got to be a Clerk in some office. Thomas to be sent to a farmer in the North of England, Richard to be put to a Boarding-school. They must leave their present dwelling for one more suited to their circumstances - The Mother grievously afflicted both in body & mind (who has been weakened with loss of sleep & appetite since she was acquainted with this disaster) cannot well be removed to a great distance from their present residence: they had thoughts of taking some little place in Tottenham near the Mating-house for the mother & three daughters (Betsy, Hannah & Abby) to dwell in, to have a bed for the father when he should come to them, & keep one Servant. By their Letters to us the two elder young-women Betsy & Hannah seem quite contented to descend to a lower style of living: their fortitude, resignation & prudence are uncommon. The daughter Sally is (I hope) happily settled: & I have no doubt but all of them will be quite well provided for; who surrender themselves (body, soul & spirit) to the disposal of their great Creator -- The considerate part of the family have I believe long lived under a gloomy apprehension of some such evil. I make no doubt but thou hast heard of this before now, being much talked of, but I thought that thou would like to hear about the situation of the amiable family.
	We are favoured with very tolerable health. I request thou wilt be very particular ^in informing^ about thy own health & that of each of thy children, & of thy brother James, & how Molly Phelps is now. Remember us all in the most affectionate manner to you all, & to thy father. How does poor Molly McLaughlin hold up? Remember us very kindly to, James Moreton & Aby Atkinson, & Johny Christy. Thy brother James & his wife are near our hearts: we are expecting at some time the pleasure of seeing them here - Jane Watson (Rathrush) rather better, but poorly - My Peggy has been under the Doctor's care. She miscarried, mismanaged herself, & was thought in danger of a decay, but by last account was finely recruiting - she sent her dear love to thee - her son finely, her daughter ailing with teeth. I believe Sam Elly will get Jenny Beale - Is Dicky Jacob like to get Molly Greer? ^My^ Molly still in Dublin, we think her improved in her speech. Sally at Samuel Neale's near Cork - we have some expectation of her return soon: Debby bravely, her face finely. Aby & Lydia nearly as thou would wish them to be, I hope - their dear love is to thee. Debby says that thy Peggy, (who is also my dear Peggy), owes her a Letter. Tell her that though she may be poor, she ought to be honest. Our love to thy uncle Christy's & Jo brother Sinton's families, & to Joe Richardson - he talked of some curiosity, or medals which he had to send my Son - put him in mind. Cousin Sam is bravely & joins us in Salutation to his friends. Robert Lecky bravely - Betty Haughton has left him & is now at her brother Jonathan's here.
I am, my dear Cousin, thy truly affectionate friend, Richard Shackleton. 


