McMellick 25th/6mo: 1781
My dear Molly
I received thy acceptable lines & had the letter
to thy Cousin Nancy, forwarded to her immediately. I take
the opportunity of her going, to tell thee I had a letter a few
days since from Sally Hoope, who says her Uncle is much
better & they hope out of danger, is able to sit up twice a day
without much fatigue, tho still finds himself very weak,
I understand by John Pettigrew, who called at Ballibritain
in his way here, that they were apprehensive of a relapse.
I hope it will not be the case as I think if he grew worse
Sally would have written immediately. We were all very
much alarmed about him, indeed I almost gave him up.
Cousin Ruth endured some days of painful anxiety but
was favoured with tolerable spirits considering her situation
I am well pleased thy Father is to make such a short
stay in England, tho' I fear I shall not see you soon together
our Quarterly Meeting falls in an out of the way place, It would
bee pleasant to take Ballitore in the way to it, but Fanny
is not at home, therefore am rather more confined than usual

She went to Clonmell with Cousin Sally Grubb, I do not know
but she may be now in Waterford. I had a letter from her lately
she seems to like Clonmell much, she is become intimate with
Benjm Grubb's Daughters, She was pleasing herself with an hope
that Sally would have accompanied Peggy home & would then
have found a companion in her.
Tis' likely thou hast heard of Bros & Sister Gatchell's having
changed their Habitation. They now live a few Houses below us
Manged their Habitatton. They now live a few Houses below us
at the same side of the Street in a very agreeable House, well
situated for business & has a good Garden, advantages they did
not possess in the other place.
I am almost ashamed at keeping thy Books so long I
must request thy leave to keep them a little longer, it is very
lately I begun to read them, I do not remember that I ever
conversed to long a time togather, with the Poets before, I think
some of them very agreeable, be assured I am far from dissimulation
when I tell thee few of them pleases me more than thy self.
As thou fancied in thy dream, I do think, Poetry possesses
a kind of fascination & ones mind is led insensibly to like it
Please to present my kind love to thy Mother, Sally, Aby
& his Spouse.
Mother & Sister Beales dear love to thy
Mother & families
I am my dear Molly's Affectionate Friend
Louisa Strangman

Mary Shackleton
Ballitore
Louisa Strangman
[unclear]k[/unclear] 25th 6mo 1781

