
My dear Uncle


        I hoped ere now to have heard of thy safe arrival at Ballitore, & purposed writing several times before, but was prevented by a hurry of business from doing myself that pleasure so long, that I may well be ashamed to present my little offering. Archibald has been in the Office for a few days since thou wert here, but has been again attacked with pains in his back & sides so as to keep him within doors. Nancy Steevens was just on the eve of departing for Dublin when she was persuaded to accompany the Friends to the Meeting of Limerick: It was my fortune to escort her part of the way to Clonmel: I left her under the protection of two married men & a parcel of bachelors. It was rather a disappointment to me that she did not steer her course another way, as if she could not get a suitable conveyance from Leighlinbridge, I had a chance of being gratified with a peep at the agreeable circle of my valued friends: however it would be scare reasonable in me to wish to desert my station in a time that my best exertions are so necessary. Rachels daughter has got over the meazles [sic] very favourably, & now her little boy having caught the disorder causes her fresh anxiety. The childrens illness prevented Nancy Steevens from committing herself to Josiah Edmundsons care, or you should have her there along with him. How do the little ones with you? I hope the young Squire has got over his grief for being restricted from a frequent application to the bottle. I hope my Aunt has received the little keg of Sprats that I directed to be left at T: Chandlees for her, & that she does not dislike them as she used to be fond of a little relish. Please to excuse me to Molly & Sally for not writing, & assure them I do not forget how much I am indebted to them for their correspondence & intend to write as soon as I can.
        I request my dear love to be presented to all at home as if particularly mentioned & to Cousin Debby & her T:C:
        I am dear Uncle thy dutiful Nephew
                William Rayner
Waterford 11th 4th month 1781

