
Dear Uncle.


        I received the pleasing account of thy safe return by T: Fayle, & embrace the earliest opportunity of congratulating thee on being restored to thy most intimate connexions: Surely thou hast need of some respite now, having been so frequently from home of late. I should not have delayed writing to thee so long after the receipt of thy last, if I had been acquainted with thy intention of going to England; but this is such an out-of-the-way place that I seldom can hear how you are going on. I request thou may spare me some Franks for Ballitore, as it is no easy matter to get them here now. I saw Jemmy Abell in Waterford some time since, & think he appears much better, which I was very glad to observe. I hope Cousin Sally Birkbeck has entirely recovered from her late disorder, & that Morris also enjoys good health. My landlady has taken lodgings at Tramore, there to spend a month or six weeks, & have the benefit of bathing, so that Pat, Tom & I may be said to keep a Bachelors house. I must go there one of these days & take a view of the celebrated place, the resort of such a number of people: Archibald does not seem much inclined to frequent it as he has heretofore done; however, not until the season is farther advanced, not imagining that he received much benefit thereby. He desired I might present his love, & tell thee he was glad to hear of thy return. He has been pretty tolerably [sic] of late, except within these few days complaining. John Webbs love to thee: if he had known of thy being at the Province Meeting, I heard him say, he would have gone there. Reads mother is in town now, I see her frequently; if he has any letter for her sent to me I will deliver it. Pray remember me affectionately to my Friends & Relations.
        I am, Dear Uncle,
                thy loving Nephew
                        William Rayner
I have heard AB several times expressing his surprise that he does not receive any letters from thee of late.


Waterford 7th month 15th 1781

