Pamdon near Starlow January 5th 1809
I was very glad to receive so good an account of the widow
and her Children as your kind letter of the 16th of February brought to me
I am extremely obliged to you for taking so much pains to accomplish
[unclear][/unclear] in knitting, you proceeded in the most judicious way possible, and
seen to have entirely affected your purpose, and have even gone beyond
my hopes in making the mockers wise. I daresay that they will
hereafter most sincerely bless you. I now commit the widow to
Providence and her own and her children diligence, and beg to
return you my very sincere thanks for the very excellent manner in
which you have expended my money. We have been very much

much pleased indeed with the perusal of your poems. Some of them are
most beautiful and musical poetry, and afforded us great delight indeed.
W. Smith read them with me, and he said that he wished that he could
whisper in your Ear, one thing, "Do not use the third person for the second"
where poetry is so good as yours, it is a very great pity indeed that this
should occur, and in a second edition it would be well worth while to
alter it. I could mention several of your poems with which we were quite
charmed. Mr. Burkes letters also were a very acceptable part of the volume.
I daresay that you are perfectly well acquainted with Mrs. Barbaulds
works - She married about thirty years ago, and lived happily, her
Husband being fully sensible of her merit and most sincerely attached to
her - about a twelvemonth ago, he became deranged in his understanding,

and the turn his madness took, was that of utter aversion to the wife whom
he had loved so much, every epithet of disrespect, every form of contradiction
became families to him, she concealed her unhappiness for some time, but
at length friends interfering, he was recommended to visit some friends in
Norwich, on his return home it was hoped that he was well, but after a
short time his violence returned "Toad, infamous woman" [unclear]we at[/unclear]
expressions he frequently used to her. They agreed to part again, for
on all other subjects he appeared to be sane, and it was determined
that she should remain at Stoke Newington, and that he should have a
lodging in town, near his Nephew, to whom he was much attached. Last at
this time Mrs. Barbauld made us a visit, and expressed her hope, that
time would soften his mind, and that they might again be united.

but Providence had no such happiness in store, the disease continued, and
the poor man in a paroxysm of madness threw himself into the new river and
was drowned; and so perished a man of christian principles, of education, of
the kindest benevolence, a prey to this cruel malady. It is indeed a sad story
Harlow sixth Jan 1809
Mrs. Leadbeater
FREE
1809
Ballitore
[unclear][/unclear] Imsmith Ireland
My paper bids me deals to a conclusion which I do with sincere wishes to
give and yours for a happy new year. I am very glad to hear that the excellent
Daughter of the worthy school [unclear]mistress[/unclear] is about to make so good a match -
I feel interested in the welfare of Ballitore and its inhabitants - and are with
due regard yours very sincerely Frances Smith. --

