
                                        Coalbrook Dale 3d month 20th 1787


        I trust my Dear Friend will have had a better evidence then [sic] words of the continuance of best fellowship not only with himself, but his valuable family - known and unknown - however I hope I may safely give way to the present opening - and manifest by my pen - that I still desire to be united to them in the Root of Life - where the Children of the family find each other - and know their fellowship to be with the Father, and the Son, and one with another in him 
        Thy last kind letter reachd me at Sunderland - and tho it had been long wrote - it was not like the Manna - which lost its virtue by time - I was thankful to share the remembrance of one who knows frequent access to the place where prayer is wont to be made - not only on his own account - but for a blessing on the Church at large - and thus viewing thee Dear Friend - I can share thy joy in beholding the various branches of thy own family - so powerfully under the forming hand - as to manifest their Love by a chearful [sic] & well timd obedience - may they still follow on to know the Lord in the way of his leadings - then shall they know His goings forth  to be prepard as the morning; and he shall come  unto them as the rain; as the latter and former rain  unto the Earth 
My Belovd Companion & myself got home the last day of the 1st month where finding all our near connections in usual health - afforded fresh cause for thankfulness to that good hand - which had sustaind us through many difficulties - & united us to those that are bound to the Law & Testimony - in this day of general backsliding - and tho we was according to our measures often deeply afflicted - and in the language of the Prophet - could say - The ways of Zion do  mourn, because so few come up to her solemn feasts, all  her Gates are desolate! her Priests sigh, her Virgins are afflicted, and she is in bitterness Yet we did believe the hope of the humble would be revivd - if the highly favord - & powerfully visited amongst the rising Generation - are but passive - & patiently abide - the turning of the Lords hand - upon them - there will be such raisd up - as shall be concernd - for the exaltation of the Cause of God on Earth - and some we found - of this class of the People - who already - promiss [sic] much comfort to themselves - and usefulness in the Church - 
        Thou will see I commune with thee in wonted freedom - yet I would always keep in view the difference of our age & experience 
        Soon after our getting home my Dear Mother Darby - was favord with an instructive letter from thee - in which we shard looking upon thy communications as a common stock - thy valuable Sons addition to AJ & myself was reviving - & my heart is afresh turnd towards him - with hope - that strength will be added to strength - whereby in his outward vocation - he may be helpd to magnify his office - by his countenance - & whole conduct often manifesting - that he has been with Jesus - & thus may be made the happy instrument of preparing the way of the Lord - in young & tender minds - no matter whether they may all be the natural branches of the family, or not - all Souls are equally precious - & I trust the day is hastning [sic], when many shall seek the way to Zion, with their faces thitherward -
        the last account of our Dear American Friends was - that William Mathews, P. Brayton & M. Jenkins was in London, looking for a Conveyance to their much Lovd native Shore - Z. Dicks & R. Wright visiting families in Devonshire house Quarter - R. Jones & C Hustler - in Nottinghamshire - G. Dillwin gone back into Scotland - John Pemberton near Whitehaven, A Jessop [?] in Cheshire  this with S. Stephenson & Am Byrd being in Somersetshire - is all the movements I now remember in that line 


When thou seeth A. Sparkes - please to tell her - I got her acceptable letter - for which am obligd - and hope if she inclines to write she will not regard my silence - I had a late account of the welfare of her Relations in the West - our united dear love attends herself & excellent Sister - with J. Watson - & Friends in thy freedom - which largely attends thyself - valuable Wife - & each of your Children - Remaining 
        Thy Affectionate Cousin 
                         D. Darby
   by a late letter from by Belovd Friend Esther Juke, we have the satisfaction of hearing of Dr. S. Grubs recovery  my Uncle Dillworth seems in a very declining state of health, fast hastning [sic], towards that rest - which is prepard for the Righteous 
when thou seeth R & M Dudley give our Love to them. [illegible]. I regretted not seeing her when in England  Mother Darby wishes me to say thy early reply to her last was a very acceptable proofe of thy friendship - & she wishes thee to accept an acknowledgment by my pen 
   please to tell thy Son - our mutual Dr Jd [abbreviated names] Jane Pearson was lately in usual health & had been with Dr M Howorth [?] of Lancashire - visiting families in a Neighbouring month meeting [illegible] back -- I am glad to hear of her moving a little - having recevd an excellent Gift. I wish her to be a faithful Steward -- 


