Dublin 23rd August 92
My dear Margaret
I had thy letter yesterday, conveying the melancholy
intelligence of the loss of an esteemed Friend and neighbour, - for which,
indeed, I am heartily sorry; - on account of the loss which such a woman must
be to society, - but more particularly to her poor Husband. I know not
any union, which promised more happiness, - and how soon has it been done
away. It shews indeed, the folly of placing much dependance on any
thing in this fleeting world. - There are Happinesses to be sure, to be met
with, but then they are so uncertain, that we should, if possible, be always
reconciled to part with them, whenever it might please Providence to call
them from us -
I feel, myself, so many obligations on me, for the blessings I
enjoy, from all our dear Family having been so long spared to me, that it
will not ever be within my power, to be as thankful as I ought for so invaluable
a favour. - But I hope I shall be yet more studious to
deserve so dear a Blessing, and that our dear Parents will be long long spared
to us; even to a good Old Age. -
The losing a woman, the Friend of one's heart,
in the way in which she was taken from her Husband, must be doubly
distressing. - I know, for my own part, I should feel it more sensibly
than if I lost her by almost any other sad event. - we know not however
what

what is good for us. -
Hannah will not go on seventh day next, she has put it off
'till this day week. She has written to Bess about it, by the last
post.
Sally Walsh desires me to tell my Mother, that Billy is
very well satisfied, that the woman at Killane, should nurse the
Infant of poor J.B. -
I am glad it has been spared, as it
may prove some satisfaction for the loss of its dear Mother
I wrote to John, last night, about this melancholy affair,
desiring him to tell our sister in the best way he could -
Let me hear from some of you, soon, and mention how
my dear Father is - and how you all are. -
with love & duty to my dear Parents & sisters, I
remain ever, thy affectionate Brother
A Manliffe

