My dear Cousin,
Ballitore: 9/2 month. 1783.
	I was favoured in course with thy long, Kind, & intelligent letter -- And though I acknowledge it was such, yet I did not know but it would have been followed by another, giving some account of your then ensuing province Meeting, whose lot it was to burn incense in your new Meeting-house, &c., &c. So true is the Proverb that Much would have more. I understand that some James Christy was lately in Dublin, but I did not hear which of the three -- I am sorry that while the nations of the earth are grown tired of war, & cultivating Peace among one another, the Professors of the Gospel of Peace should continue a contentious, useless, frivolous war. I have no doubt but that we appointed to that visit appeared simple & weak, though perhaps well-meaning poor persons -- but they are the weak & tender shoots, not the strong & thick timber fit only for fuel of fire, which bear the fruit [word crossed out] grateful to God & man. Better is a poor & a wise child, than an old & foolish King, who will no more be admonished-- If they will go to (Ecclesiastical) Law, the Law must only take its course -- In the mean time, while we see with deep concern our friends, whom we cannot help, a prey to the enemies of their own houses, may we study to be quiet, & do our own business -- & this business I apprehend to be, quietly to wait for the operation of that Power in our minds respectively, which will enable us to keep up the daily sacrifice of a broken & contrite spirit -- & also in simplicity & integrity to do that which is our reasonable duty, as well as to be prepared & ready for those services, which an increase of care & progress in religious experience must unavoidably bring upon us. -- I am glad that Joseph Nicholson shews himself humbled under some religious sense -- it must be a great comfort to his worthy Grandfather, & if he be preserved so as to persevere in the right way, it will be a great comfort to the Church. He seemed to me when I was there somewhat thoughtful about the best things. -- the Author of all Good is not wanting in extending his gracious, condescending, visitations to the youth: but the youth are many of them too much wanting in making a total surrender: they say as it were to the heavenly Visitation, hitherto shalt thou come & no farther: they are not willing to be sufficiently reduced, & to become vile in the eyes of their former acquaintance: they do not humbly & diligently enough wait for the Baptism of Truth, to wash, to purify, to strengthen their hearts -- the world in one shape or other comes in & supersedes the lively, profitable impressions -- the fowls of the air pick up the seed, or the briers & thorns prevail to choke it -- Like the young man in the Gospel, they reject the terms & go away, though perhaps not sorrowful as he was --- I wish this may not be the case with him, nor any who have been thus mercifully favoured.
	We are (through Kindness of Providence) generally in tolerable health -- My wife able to get about & expects to be the latter end of this week at the Quarterly meeting at Mountmelick - Molly has had a cold & cough, which stick by her these some weeks past. her indisposition must plead her excuse with Cousin Peggy Pike, who must grant her a longer day -- I am pleased that several of you who have been ailing are recruited. I should like ^be glad^ to hear like account of poor John Christy Junior -- I heard not long ago from Waterford: Ruth & her companion have been poorly there -- they have pretty much completed (I believe) a family-visit in that place: they were not at the Quarterly at Cork -- By last accounts Robert Valentine, Robert Grubb & his wife were to come from that Meeting to Dublin, & take shipping together for Whitehaven -- John Hall got safe home to his family (I hear) in 20 hours after he left Dublin. I suppose John Conran will wed Louisa, & Sam Houghton wed Jenny Boake, after all. Jenny is an agreeable lass, & I hope will prove a suitable help-mate to him & mother to his children --- All our dear love attends you all our dear friends & relations there & in Lurgan, James Morton, Johny Christy, &c.
I am, my dear Cousin Debby,
Very affectionately thine
Richard Shackleton.

