Alhandra 1st of August 1810
Dr. Wife
I hope those few lines will find you in
as good health as I am in at Present thank
God for it Dr. Wife I have wrote 2 letters
from Spain to you but I rec'd no answer I rec'd
one Letter [unclear][/unclear] Days before the Battle of Tullivera,
which is now a bove 1 year ago Dear Wife I have
gone thru great hardships since I have left
Ireland I have marched thru all Portugal
and has been in two Engagements with the
French the first at Oporto in Portugal for
2 Days the 2nd at Tullivera in Spain for 4
Days & 4 nights without a morsel to eat
or drink nor not one hour to sleep
there was not more than 300 of my
Regt. left alive, we were 1000 strong going
to Battle but thank God I never rec'd
a wound altho Cannon and Musket Balls
flew like Hail I have been 7 months
I never lay in a house but every
night lay in the open fields without
any covering In short I have
suffered hunger and hardship
I have paid a dollar for 1 pound
and a half of bread and 1 shilling
for 2 quarts of water but thank
God at presant I am very well
of I am Clerk this 8 months past

to an Engineer Officer who allows me
2 shillings a Day besides my pay from the
Regt. which is 1s 5d p Day at Presant for I
was made a Corpl. the Day after the Battle
of Tullivera I have drew no pay from the
Regt. this 8 months nor does not Intend
to do it for 4 months more, Portugal
is a very Plentyfill Country but as for
Spain I wish I may never march thro
it again I keep account for upwards
of 600 Men who are imployed in building
Batteries, they are all Portuguese,
I scare write any thing at presant but
Portuguese Language, which I can write
and spake as well as I can English Dr.
Wife write to me and let me know
is the Child and my Father alive.
Give my love to my Dr. Father - Brothers
and Sisters Nephews and Nieces and
Brotherinlaw's Sisterinlaw's to your
father mother Sisters and Brothers
and all dear friends Relations & Neighbours -
Dr. Wife I can write no more at Presant.
I Shed so much Tears at the remembrance
of my Dr. friends and
Country that I spoil all the paper
Direct your Letter to Corporal
Toole 87th th Regt. Alhandra Portugal
or Elsewhere -

My Regt. at Presant lys in Cadiz
in Spain -
No more at Present from yr.
Loving husband till death
[underline]Corpl. Toole[/underline]

