London June 16th 1819
My dear Girls
As I believe that I will have
an opportunity by some one going to Dublin, I thought
I would avail myself of it, to speak to you again
after so long an interval of separation, and silence
towards one another. It will be a pleasure to me, and
I hope, will not be disappointing to you. You have,
both of you, I hope, improved yourselves much since
in every way, both in your minds and manners; at least
it is now certainly high time for you to do so, especially
for you, my dear Lucy, who have come to an age, when
one expects a little more steadiness and sense than belongs
to children; and you, my dear Selina, have you left
off some of your romping habits, and applied yourself
to studies which, although, no doubt, not so pleasant
to you, will be of much more benefit to your future
life? Both of you must, by this time, be sensible
that we are not to be always children and that something
more is required of us as we advance in life, than

when we are young. And if we do not begin to make
that improvement, in time, this improvement will never
come - But enough of this, I know giving advice is
not very pleasant to those it is given to, and that I am
not very competent to give it, but perhaps you will
not think the worse of it as it comes from me; besides I
am grown sober of late, and shall not like that [underline]such[/underline]
[underline]good[/underline] advice should be altogether thrown away, mind
that. Besides you cannot but suppose that I am interested
for your welfare and therefore would give you
the best in my power -
Do you still go to school to Sally B? How do you
succeed with your French and your other branches of study?
Have you improved much at the Piano, or do you
still neglect it as much as ever, as I am not with you
now to make you play? I often wish for you here to
play some of my old favourites, such as Garth's Rondo,
&c. not one of which have I forgotten yet, although I
never hear them except from myself. Has Emily
begun to learn to play yet, tell her I expect to find
her a famous player when I come back, and singer
too.

How do Arthur and Frederick come on. Eliza Gough
tells me Arthur has written a latter to her in printed
characters, by which I see that he is coming on well, but
is Frederick learning to read? They, I suppose, still
are playing with their cars, tops, marbles, and [unclear]garde[/unclear]
and as full of glee as they can be, running about
without any thing to vex them, except a little fight
now and then, when Frederick beats Arthur. I wonder
if they ever speak of me. I often think of them, every
little boy I see putting me in mind of them. Give
each of them a kiss for me, and tell them not to forget
me. But I had almost forgotten one thing,
the lambs and cats, how do they do? I suppose they
are taken very good care of, unless you are much
changed, you being, especially Selina, famous for
your attachment to them, as well as I remember. Oh
happy lambs and cats, to be taken such are of, I
wish there was someone here to take such care of
me - But to be serious, my dear girls, I
hope you are really improving yourselves, and that

you do not waste so much of your time as formerly,
time that never can return, and which will be regretted
when we can no longer make use of it; I will be
disappointed if I do not find [insertion]you[/insertion] altered for the better on
my return. Do not take it ill that I do not write
to you separately, but as I had nothing to say to one
which I might not say to the other, I have made use
of this plan and so acquitted myself of a double duty
in the same time it would take to do one. With
love to yourselves and all, not forgetting Lambs and cats
I am your affectionate brother Dick.
Lucy & Selina Barrington
Glendruid

