How could my dear Molly be so earnest for my
writing often? Did thou think I could so quickly withdraw
my thoughts from Dr & Cr. as to forbear filling
my paper with technical terms My conveniencies for
letter writing are not perhaps so many as thou imaginest
or so many as they may be at some future period.
I must devote most of my time to get experience in
my business which is less difficult than I imagined.
Since I wrote the above I received my Uncle's letter
which gave me very great pleasure by it I am informed
of Cousin Lydia's condition. It is well if she does not venture
too much as Polly is not able to restrain her.
I am glad Owen's wife has got the employment of nursing
the Babe. Between that & Debby's Marriage I suppose
you are all in a flurry. So you had Bob Baxter
with you the day after the second presentation - Was
he disappointed that the marriage was not that day.
Next fourth day I expect Pat & I will go into
our

our new house We shall be neighbours to A Balfour
(in the same street) His daughter Betsey is an
admirer of thee & thy poetry which thou may be
assured does not lessen her in my opinion —
First-day morning I took a pleasant walk to the
top of Bilberry rock which commands a very
good prospect of the town but for a fog which
overspread the tops of the houses. I did not begin
to give a regular account of my journey as it might
prove insipid & unentertaining. I was taught to
expect a bad road & a very disagreeable country which
as it did not appear the first day I certainly
thought my informers had been mistaken. At night
I was treated very kindly by the hostess who launched
out very much in praise of our family in
Ballitore & of the Friends in Waterford. She
& I chatted about one thing or another & among
the rest of her daughter (who was drowned by
overturning of the Stage Coach) As she perceived
I was something fatigued she got a bed prepared

for me immediately after tea. We have melancholy
news to-night of the death of that worthy Friend Jas.
Gough. Sarah Wily had an Account of it which only
mentioned that he died last sixth-day & that he had
not expected his end was so near. I daresay you have
received an account of this sad event before this arrives
Sarah Wily presents her dear love to the family she
expects a letter from Sam soon which please to inform
him. Remember me affectionately to A Finlay & through
him to the Boys, Jonathan Haughton's family & all [unclear]others[/unclear]
who are so kind as to enquire for me. My Friend
Archibald has not been well to-day & has been but
a short time in the Office to-day. His pains seem
to increase.
I, am Dear Molly,
with sincere affection thine
William Rayner
Waterford 9th 10 mo: 1780

Mary Shackleton
Wm. Rayner
Waterford: 9/10 mo: 1780
Answered 20 —

