

			R. S. to his Daughter Mary
					Ballitore, 30ths of Seventhmonth 1776.
	As my dear M. bespoke me to write to her, I think to send her a little scrawl. I hope thy dear Mother and thou have been vravely since you left us, as (through favour of kind Providence) we generally are. I do not doubt but thou receivest many civilities and marks of affectionate regard from thy friends and new relations there. People who are civil themselves are generally treated with civility, but the froward [sic] meet with those of their own stamp. For my part, when I was altely in England, I did not know what to do with the people’s kindness. Indeed, I believe I should have been in danger of being hurt by it, but for one thing. I had got, by long experience some knowledge of myself, and I well knew that of myself I was poor, weak, unstable, ignorant, insignificant; and that if I had any little capacity to step aright, or drop a word of edification, it was not merit of mine, it was by the grace of God; a name, my dear, which I would not make free to write, but that I feel a solemnity unexpectedly cover my spirit, while I thus hold converse with thee. Be thou also careful, my beloved Mary, to centre deep in humility and abasement of self: it is the tree which takes deep root downwards, that is most likely to stand against the storm. This is the spring-time of thy life: may thy tender, innocent heart be open to receive the precious seed, which I trust the great and good Husbandman will condescend, and has condescended, to sow therein; may He also be pleased  to water it with the visitations of his love, immediately & instrumentally; may he guard and protect it from every noxious thing! Thou seest how they elder Sisters have made choice of religion, as their principal treasure. Be thou also a wise child; and whatever natural abilities it may please the great Creator to endue thee with, or whatever acquisitions or improvements thou mayst make of those natural gifts, by contemplation, reading, or converse, thou art only acceptable in the sight of Heaven, (however man may estimate thee,) as thou takest heed to the grace in thy own heart, to be restrained by its restraints, to do nothing contrary to its gentle remonstrances, and to obey, in humility and simplicity, its leadings and requirings. My dear Child, above all things, be humble, be humble. Humility goes before honour: it is the humble whom the Lord teaches of his ways. We have in each of us a certain something, appertaining to self, (it is of the flesh,) which profiteth nothing in the work of religion. This fleshly part is pleased, & nourished, and swells with the praise and commendation of fools; for wise men would not puff up: and we have need of frequent retirement to the gift, the grace in our minds, that in the tranquil, cool hour of the day, not inflated by vain knowledge, or perturbed by passion, we may, in the stillness of all flesh, hear what this monitor, this good spirit, this faithful witness, says to our states. Perhaps when, figuratively speaking, all men speak well of us, this heavenly, sure, unerring word of prophecy, which preaches to our own particular states, as individuals, will condemn and reprove us. This is what we are to go by; and judge and estimate ourselves by; and not by the crude, superficial, hasty, partial judgment of capricious mortals, whose favour veers about like the wind. My mind is often exercised in behalf of my children. You are the children of many prayers. You have hitherto been a great comfort to your dear mother and me, & we have no greater joy than to see you walk in the truth. It is neither in our will, nor in our power, to do great things as to this world, for you. We are not like many others who have large possessions and lucrative business. Providence, in the wise distribution of his favours, has allotted us a lower rank in life; yet, with industry, care, & prudent economy, he has enabled us to procure a sufficiency. And indeed a great redundance is not desirably. The lip of truth has pronounced how hard it is for a rich man to enter the kingdom. A little sufficiency of the things of this life, enjoyed with moderation, & under a renewed sense of the Divine blessing, is all that I think we should wish for; and when obtained, should be cause of deep, and humble, and fervent gratitude to our Great Benefactor.
	So, my dear, I have unexpectedly written thee a long letter, instead of a short scrawl. I was writing to thy dear Mother, and whatever was the meaning of it, I could not enlarge as usual to her/ so I turned to thee, and found greater facility and fluency. Not that I think my letter to thee is any thing extraordinary, as to its value, of that I had any extraordinary influence to write it. But so it fell out: these things occurred, and I venture to pen them down, in a degree of freedom of mind. And, indeed, without such freedom, we should be cautious of writing or speaking on the solemn subject of religion. Our own spirits, as human creatures, may agitate other matters; but the Spirit of Christ in us, should more or less open our understandings, & give liberty, when we meddle with the things of His kingdom. Perhaps I may not very often again, at least for some space of time, converse with thee on this awful theme; but whether present of absent, speaking, writing, or silent, be assured I am, with the closest feelings of paternal love
					Thy truly affectionate father
								R. S.



