Tottenham 7 month 9th 1782
My dear Cousin
	The intelligence received from John Eliot of thy quick passage & safe arrival at Ballitore was very satisfactory indeed - the account his wife gave me of the situation of cousin Abrams youngest child was rather alarming, yet I hoped for better tidings til J. Pim informed me that the dear infant was removed, thy particular account of thy own feelings on the occasion is affecting, yet my dear cousin allow me to say, I think thou hast indulged the dark side rather too much --
       Cousin Abram & Lydia have our sympathy, the loss of their baby no doubt would be very trying, their acting for the best must be a great alleviation. My Husband had his son inoculated. the loss of his mother if possible still more endeared the child, & consequently made him more desirous of endeavouring to keep the only pledge his truly amiable wife left him he would have thought himself wanting in his duty to his child if he had not availed himself of the practice, which has been remarkably successful, when we were in Lancashire with my Brother & Sister Bell last summer, my Brother had about that time inoculated at least 200 persons, I think near 300 of which number not one died, tho of those who took the disorder in the natural way as it is called scarcely a family but lost one, two, three, & in some more were taken away.
       Soon after thou left us I wrote to Morris informing him of thy visit to us, & dropped a hint that thou would be pleased to hear from him again, quickly we received the enclosed Letter, on which he remarks as follows -- you see I have wrote to R. Shackleton, I know it would answer no end, because you have so much indulgence towards my Performances else I would beg you to burn it after inspection - I am glad I wrote it before I had seen his to E. Burke, how can a Person capable of writing such a Letter but be even displeased at the attempts of such as I. But I am persuaded Cousin Richard does not esteem the ability of his friends, but the use to which they are applied, as the criterion of excellence, & here I am a step further removed from a title to his notice - But I see advancement is not impracticable.
       My dear husband desires to (or I would rather say ^does^ for I know he doth sincerely) unite with me in the tenders of very dear Love to you all, notwithstanding he doth not find himself in a situation of Mind sufficiently collected to write in a matter satisfactory to himself however it might prove to his friends, his time having long been but too much taken up in Business seemingly unavoidable
       Yesterday Cousin Wilson Birbeck informed his Me: [sic] Meeting of his intention of marriage with his friend H. Plumsted Junior
       Cousin William Forster has wrote the needful about his Wife & Son I doubt not, the rest of our relations & friends here are in usual health - mine is finely restored - my disorder is entirely gone off, I can now relish animal food, sleep well, & bear a good deal of exercise - a wonderful change indeed! for which I wish to be truly thankful -- please remember us to our friends & acquaintance - in your Villa.
       I am dear cousin thine affectionately
       Sarah Birbeck



