The Retreat: 25/10 mo: 1790.
"It cannot rain but it must pour," says thou perhaps, when this third letter follows
the others in such a hurry; for I sent one by Dublin 21st.., & I suppose another from
me left Athy post-office yesterday.. Thine of 22nd reached me this morning; thy tender
reproaches could not displease, on the contrary I could not but be flattered by the
consequence they shewed me that I was; but they touched my heart, especially when
thou added that thou was not as well as thou had been, & I was grieved at myself
for being so timorous of censure (or what would scarce deserve the name) falling
upon me, & causing thee uneasiness thereby; however it may appear at Clonmel, my
writing so often, I hope never more to put thy ease in competition with the opinion
of others - thus I thought as I sate at my work this morning, & determined to write
by to-nights post, let who would see the outside of the letter - when just then
father told me a frank to Clonmel must go to-day, "then said I, I intend to write,"
I did not say to [underline]whom[/underline], but believe he would not disapprove of it. I read to him
& mother that part of thy letter which mentioned the business, which thou
describes much as I expected it would be, & I do believe thou could adopt some regular
plan of thy own which would be better; for they seem to me to be in such
bustle as must perplex themselves, & multiply books perhaps unnecessarily, & their
business I hope is more extensive than thine will be - I say [underline]I hope[/underline], because I think
all the profit they can bring by no means worth the trouble of such incumbrances,
& I think one could have more enjoyment of life to live upon a little, &
limit our endeavours after possessions in this life
"Our portion is not large indeed,
But then how little do we need,
Since Nature's calls are few!
In this the art of living lies,
To want no more than may suffice,
And make that little do."

It pinched me thy mention of not being so well nor so comfortable as I wish thee
but thy situation as thou describes thyself, unemployed among these men of business
who I do not believe can [underline]teach[/underline] well, but make a splutter & repeat the same thing
many times (don't tell of me for I may be wrong) - but I believe thou art wearied
among them, & be assured in the quiet shades of Ballitore thou hast left a heart
which will rejoice at thy return. I was somewhat deprest & a little alarmed about
thy health, yet I thought it might be a favour to me to have a little gentle chastisement,
if it tended to more inwardness of mind; humbly hoping that He, whose
gracious eye hath, I believe[deletion]d[/deletion], pitied the past distresses of my mind, which were
all only known to Him, will not afflict more than strength is allotted to bear.
I am quite well in health & feel a composure of mind I think even now, which
I hope is a symptom that we shall meet comfortably. But thy dear friends
there, why so little time spent with them? even the evenings given to business!
My father had a letter from Cou: D Christy yesterday, who very agreeably mentioned
our affair, & seemed prejudiced in thy favour - I was rather afraid of them,
& as I love them dearly their approbation was pleasant.
M Mellor is better, M Hudson bravely, Brother's servant recovering. Mother after
her best fashion in health I think, but hurried with multiplicity of affairs -
all unite in dear love to Brother, sisters friends & thyself. We hope to get frequent
accounts of sister Grubb, about whom we are anxious, yet full of hope.
A:Widdows not yet returned. I have not wrote to or heard from dear Mary Pim.
I wrote AShannon - I hope thou hast wrote to MPim, had I known thou wished it
or had I any thing worth her acceptance should I believe have wrote. And dear
Aunt Taylor loves me! but she loves every body do mention me cordially to her & our
sweet girls. I shall long to hear from thee again that thou art better, & that my
letter has reached thee. And now farewell, my dear friend, need I assure thee of the sincere affection
of thy M Shackleton.
Excuse the incorrect & unconnected manner of my writing, for I am in expectation of calls from it almost constantly & I have been disturbed
by those calls, being pretty busy. Intend to escape to Jo Haughton's this evening. Dear Anna prayed sweetly in yesterday morng. meeting Dearly farewell.

A. Widdows & Becky are come. Abby requests Sally may be informed that Becky is
better, but in such poor health, as to make her give up the thought of going to Clonmel
this winter. She desired her son to write to Peter Taylor to this effect I suppose, but
fears, thro' hurry, he may have omitted it. A:Taverner wishes to know if Sally got
half a guinea in the parcel she sent her or by her. Farewell again.

Wm. Leadbeater
Saml. Grubbs'
Clonmel.
M: Shackleton
Ballitore: 25/10mo: 1790.

