My dear Cousin,
Ballitore: 25/8 month 1782

	I am favoured with thy last of 13th ultimate & handed to thy sister Abby the Letter which was for her: she was opportunely with us at same time. I had soon after the satisfaction of seeing our Cousin R Pike, & since that the pleasure of meeting with thy son James; so that I had opportunity of hearing of your continued welfare; which is always pleasing to me. We are (through kindness of Providence) partakers of tolerable health here my wife at times complaining, but not confined from attending to matters civil & religious within her sphere -- & indeed out of her sphere; for her husband knows so little, & is so dull at learning the management of divers of his temporal affairs, that the Wife is obliged to take the reins into her own hands; & as I find she rules well, I am loath to incommode or interrupt her by meddling. For such wife, & such children as I am favoured with I wish to be thankful & through the Grace bestowed upon me I hope I can say I am thankful. Troubles we may expect, my dear Cousin; they are our portion & our lot; but if we & ours witness preservation from Evil, if we feel the divine blessing near, if we witness (as we wait for) renewed capacity to offer the daily sacrifice, & have a well-grounded hope, as we go along, that we are measurably in a state of acceptance with our great Judge, we may surely be encouraged to go forward, trusting in the mercy, & in the seasonable help & supplies of a beneficent Creator  I understand our dear friends Thomas Dobson & John Foster landed safe on the other side, & I suppose have long ere now been mercifully restored to their families. I believe they are sound Ministers, & mindful to minister of the ability given, without seeking name, or fame, or pre-eminence to themselves. I am also in hopes that our friend John Conran has received a Gift of like kind: but concerning this I dare not presume to judge, lest I might err on either side; but hope Friends, whose province it is, will be favoured to see clearly & judge aright. There is very little of this fruit brought forth in our poor land, & it would be a thousand pities to hurt any plant wholly of a right seed. We have got Mary Ridgway & her companion over. May they be preserved bearing such fruit both in ministry & conduct as becomes Trees of Righteousness! Was not thou rejoiced at hearing of dear Ruth Follows arrival? I suppose ye have her now among you. When thou hast opportunity, present her with the affectionate Salutation of this house. I think its well she was drawn to your province first. I wish she may be enabled to go deep enough down, & probe the wound among you to the bottom. Its to be hoped that it will not be surmised that anyone has been whispering to her; for she is so deaf that she could not hear a whisper. I had a letter lately from good old James Moreton: I purpose to write to him under this cover, & leave it for thee to seal & forward to him when opportunity offers  I hear often from Peggy Grubb: they have let the place of their present residence, & are about moving either to her fathers late dwelling-house there, or a house near it: but its as yet undetermined. They were pretty well there. Molly Dudley very poorly: I suppose near her time. They have been expecting our Sally there this long time. She has been at Springmount almost ever since last half-years Meeting: was to have returned to Clonmel long ago: but has been detained I believe a willing prisoner. She was to have gone thither lately from the Quarterly Meeting, which was at Limerick: but Sarah Neales indisposition preventing herself from going, & Samuel being more easy to stay by their own Meeting than go, our Sally was loath to go without her Munster-parents to a place where she had never been; so staid. I apprehend those kind friends of hers have since taken her to Youghal (where probably S: N: has been bathing as he proposed): & probably ^possibly^ she may go, or have gone to Clonmel from thence  Molly has been near five weeks from us in Dublin, attending the instructions of her former Preceptor Angier, who is about returning to England; we expect Molly to meet us at our Quarterly Meeting at Edenderry, which is to be 31st instant  Joseph & E: Pike propose to take her thither in their chaise. She took up her lodging in town at Jonathan Hills, being convenient for her Tutors attendance. She was a little uncomfortable for a while in town at first, not being used to be left as it were alone: but time reconciled that matter, & she now seems to have passed the term of her exile from us very agreeably, ^She was much pleased with J: Hill & his wife.^ She entertains us much with her letters, & we long for her company. Its like ye have had troublesome work in the North about your linen business. It would be agreeable to hear that things were settled on a satisfactory, permanent footing. Internal commotions in a country are often productive of great disquiet, & its hard to say when, or how they will end. Ye have heard (no doubt) of William Knotts having applied for Abby Wright  he seems uncertain about his success  Susy Blakely daughter of the late Abraham Duckett, had been a long time ailing at her uncle Williams. When T. Dobson & J: Foster were in this country, I brought them to visit her & that family  There was a door of utterance. The poor womans state was (I believe) ministered to, & the rich man rubbed up I think with good authority. She died 20th instant  I believe she made a good end & that her spirit found a place of Rest  She was quiet, composed, tranquil, & resigned I think when we were with her. Ephraim Booke is still followed with wakefulness & one disorder or other  sometimes is better & gets out with his family to meetings  at other times is very much down in his spirits, & stays at home. Cousin R Pike could tell thee that they paid him a visit. I had never been in his house before (I believe) since he lived in it. I also understand that Betty Scriven is not likely to recover from a decay  She is returned I suppose from Mallow to Dublin. Her darling Son William (who had exceedingly distrest her by his marriage, & who lost his wife, & in consequence his reason, its said, in part) also died lately. Thus trouble goes about, visiting the houses of all indiscriminately: sent no doubt for wise purposes, to awaken, to arouse, to alarm. happy for those who make right use of the dispensation, who take it as salutary medicine to purge away the distempers of the mind.
	Remember us very affectionately to thy Father & Children, to thy brother James & wife, & Cousin R Pike & family. Our kind love to Aby Atkinson. All our dear love attends thee. I need not tell thee that I would be glad to hear from thee when it suits thy convenience. I have no Franks for thee; therefore would be obliged to thee for a supply

	I am, My dear Cousin Debby,
		Truly & affectionately thine
			Richard Shackleton.
P.S.
As thou seemed to like the Epistle of last year to Pennsylvania, I send thee that of this year, the writing of which, as of the other, fell to my lot.

