My dear Cousin,

Ballitore: 30/3 month 1779.

			I have been undesignedly long in making reply to thy last which I observe bears date the day before our wedding in Dublin. But for this observation I would have thought that before now I had given thee some little detail of this (to me) memorable event, knowing well that thou art sincerely & nearly interested in the welfare of my family, as we are in that of thine. I was prevented from gratifying us both by ^in^ my communications on this subject by the circumstances necessarily accompanying & following such transactions, as also by an excursion which my wife & I since made in company with James Gough, Joseph Williams, Elizabeth Pike, Sarah Newland, & Jane Watson (Rathangan) to divers meetings within the compass of Mountmelick Monthly Meeting & to our Quarterly meeting held there. To be short as to our Wedding: In the most essential point it was exactly to my wish, being a confirming season to me of the rectitude of the Union, a season in which all that was within me bowed in Reverence & Gratitude & humble Supplication for the Divine Blessing on this accession to my house. It was enough, & I was entirely satisfied. Our dear friend James Gough had a favoured, acceptable time both then, & the same evening at the Wedding house. A sensible, judicious friend who had no great liking to the affair in it's progress gave me to understand as much afterwards, & that his prejudices were quite removed by his feelings in the manner in which it was accomplished. I staid in town with Debby, Molly, Sally & Sam Grubb a day after the Marriage, & then we all with the young couple, ^Molly Mellor^ & their cousins who attended the Solemnity from hence returned hither together. What was to me remarkable was that on the way home (& indeed to the best of my recollection I thought just about the same part of the way) I found in my mind similar sensations to those which affected it. 23 years before when I was conducting my present dear wife & her sister from the same place to this, ^the day after our marriage^, sensations of humble thankfulness, & offerings which he that sees in secret will never despise. We are now since the 1st of this month settled with our children at the Retreat, I hope at times seeking after best help & Wisdom to preserve us & guide us in that way & line which will be acceptable to our great Benefactor, being sensible that without his Favour & Protection (which we can only expect by faithfulness in the Requirings of duty) that a Gloom would soon overspre^a^d our fair prospects, a damp would check every pleasing emotion, & our Tranquility would be effectually disturbed. The young couple indeed seem very comfortably situated, Lydia is exceedingly gentle, well-bred & attentive to any hints for her instruction in the management of the family - She had been but a few days at home when she proposed to Aby that it would be far more agreeable to her as well as more suitable & convenient that they should all dine with the boys: accordingly Aby sits at the head of one Set of tables, & Lydia & her sister at the head of another Set, the Ushers & house-keeper assist at different places. This method my wife & I had been in for several years till the School increased much, my children grew up & other branches of the family acceded, which obliged us to have a separate table.
	As to our visit to Mountmelick-Quarter: it was by appointment of our Quarterly meeting: we visited the particular Meetings of Ballinakill, Roscrea, Birr, Knock, Killconnelmore & Montrath, were kindly received by our friends, who gave us their houses & ears freely open, but as to the effect of the Labour bestowed (for which I think best help was mercifully administered) time must manifest. After publick Meetings of Worship in these several places, we held general meetings of conference, & had Queries read & answered in them: then the Women-friends had an opportunity among themselves. We closed with the Quarterly meeting at Mount melick. Our friends Samuel Spavold & Thomas Carrington were there & had good Service for their Master: the Meetings of Worship were in degree open, that for Discipline I thought flat. Our next Provincial Meeting is to be in Dublin 30th proximo Samuel & Thomas had been engaged in visiting families about Edenderry-side, went from Mountmelick to Dublin, & tis expected would sail about this time for Liverpool. We met at Ballyroan with thy kinswoman Debby Atkins, she walked on foot I believe to the Meeting of Ballinakill (4 miles) & back: we had her to dine with us there: her husband never goes to meeting, is now I suppose in a poor state of health, obliged his son to go to the publick Worship, when a boy, to keep him out of harm's way. Now he is grown up, I am told the father wants him to go to Meeting: but the Son says as he was compelled against his inclination to go to Church when he was a boy, he will not now be called a Turn-coat - We lay a night at Jerry Hanks's (whose two Sons are at school here), they seemed in general pretty well there. John Thompson (Abbys husband) has been there this half-year I suppose. I believe few ever hear him talk of wife or child. We took up thy mother at our Return home from Athy 22d instant, & she seems exceeding-cheerful, happy & well-pleased, with us: she has her health finely, though if she lives a few days will enter into the 80th year of her age. Tom Chandlee was here lately, they were bravely there - John Conran was at the Quarterly meeting at Mountmelick, but I question if he did much at warming the old broth - There are agreeable accounts from Sam Neale & Jo: Garratt visiting London, & from Thomas Wily & Robert Grubb visiting Wales. Elizbeth Gibson (late Robinson) & divers other friends I suppose are engaged in a like visit to London.
	Please tell Cousin Abby I received her kind letter of 8th instant - she need make no apologies nor acknowledgments to us for any little service that we can ever be of to her. I think she did quite best to take the man & horse - no inconvenience to us attended it that I know of, both returned safe I believe - We are pleased she got so well to Stranmore. I forgot to mention thy brother & sister Watson & their Son were all at Mountmelick & seemed well. By cousin Abby's account there seems to remain some ground of hope that our dear John may be restored: the Spring of the year & the Spring of life are on his side. It would be matter of great satisfaction to us all if it should prove consistent with the Divine Will to realize these flattering expectations: but whether or not, Resignation & Submission is what we are to labour to get at & keep to. The burden of the testimonies delivered in your family is singular (which thou mentions:) but what shall we say? The wind (the Spirit) bloweth when & where it listeth, & we may hear the sound thereof: we may also feel an evidence whence it cometh, & yet not be able to determine with Certainty & Precision whither it goeth. If we do not keep to deep Feeling we may take to ourselves what is the portion of others, or parcel out to others what belongs to ourselves. There is yet a more sure word of Prophecy to which we would do well to take heed with all diligence, which being of private interpretation will reveal to us individually our own states & conditions, & spread before us the account as it truly stands between Souls & their Creator - But what need I write thus to thee, who by this time should be a Mother as thou art a Deborah in our Israel? I will leave the subject then, my beloved friend, & thee to the Divine Protection & Blessing, which I heartily wish may ever be near to guard thee & thine from ever hurtful thing, & through the bitters & sweets, the rough & the smooth of this checkered life land us all safe on the shore of Everlasting Peace & Rest.
	My dear Cousin Abby, thou was mis-informed about the proposal said to have been made for my daughter Debby, - no such has been made, nor I believe intended. As far as I can learn, if the young man's family-affairs made it convenient for him to marry, the object of his love would be a young-woman (Davis) from Minehead, who was some time ago in Munster. Thou may be sure we would agitate no such matter without taking thee into our council, & I desire wherever thou art, thou may not get a Lean towards any proposition of that sort made to thee till thou hast first consulted us. Thou turned off one Lover without consulting us, & I was silly enough to turn off another for thee: but Experience has now taught me more discretion - Our friend Jonathan Hill has taken a house in Dublin, & our friend William North reckons that he has got a great bargain of it. I believe Mungo & Molly Gough will be happily yoked, & draw kind together - Whether Johny Bewley & her sister Nancy will make a match of it is among the undiscovered things, which Time must reveal - My Molly wrote to Peggy Christy while we were abroad - We are concerned to hear by thy Letter that thy sister Debby's wrist is but indifferent, & that James was not quite stout. Be particular how ye all are in thy next.
	Your Mother joins us all (at present generally favoured with tolerable health) in dear love to you both, to poor dear John & the rest of the children, to the good old-man & my dear friend his Son James, & Lucy when opportunity offers - Hannah Haughton of Prospect very poorly - Tom Hudson I suppose continues weakly - It looks as if Ben Haughton would succeed with Abby Boake. I write occurrences just as they start before me. I gratefully acknowledge the Receipt of the draught & hand my Receipt inclosed. I am, My dear Debby, thy truly affectionate friend & Cousin Richard Shackleton.



