Clonmel 28th of 7th month 1778

My dear Father,
	I long very much to hear from you, I was told that Barcraft Haughton called at our house yesterday evening, I happened to be out, so he went away & did not call again, just told that you were all well when he left Ballitore; I am very jealous that he did not come again to take a bed with us, as I suppose he lay at the Inn. Samuel Spavold was at our meeting 1st day, I dined with him at Fathers, & yesterday dined in his company at Robert Dudleys, he was concerned to supplicate the Almighty for us after at Fathers; & to impart advice to those who were in the Spirit of this World at the latter place: the morning meeting on first day seemed very low, however Samuel waded through so as to speak to different states, recommended to sincerity, & being true & upright hearted in the sight of Providence, which he feared was wanting, though some took pains to appear well in the sight of one another, the evening, (or afternoon) meeting was more lively, at least I found it so. Samuel just called here, which I esteemed very kind as he was not for visiting much, but for resting himself, Molly Dudley middling in health, was hoarse first day, & got herself blooded.
	I hope tomorrows post will bring me a letter from you, with the particulars of the interment of the remains of my dear Aunt, whose memory must be dear to us; it is affecting to think of never seeing her more in this World, yet the hope that she is happily escaped from a painful diseased body affords some comfortable mitigation to our sorrow, I would wish to know what you think was her complaint. I have been thinking that perhaps it was the gout in her stomach, that disorder seemed to be so much flying about her, how is poor Cousin Sam? I believe he laments his loss, also poor James & Wanny will miss her much, as indeed a great number of poor people within her reach, to whom she was like a near friend. I sympathize with my dear Mother, it must be a close trial to lose a very affectionate, only sister, but it must afford consolation to think that my poor dear dear Aunt went before her, as she had no husband to comfort ^her^ if she had lost my Mother, many thoughts occur to my mind that makes me believe it to be in the ordering of infinite Wisdom, & to admire at his goodness, how happy if we were so in his favour, as to be guided continually by his counsel, & carry with us a joyful hope of being at last received into Glory
	My Husband is not yet returned, nor have I heard from him since I wrote to thee last, the Children thro mercy well, Abraham runs about stoutly, Anne thrives & her face looks almost as big as her Brothers.
	Friends here in general pretty well. my [sic] dear love & duty is to thee & Mother. I desire my Brother & sisters may be assured of my strong affection, also my kind love to Cousin Sam, Aunt Fullers family, Billy Rayner, James & Wanny, also poor Betty Widdows & Molly Norland, & excuse the trouble of distributing it from thy affectionate daughter.
	Margaret Grubb
Jemmy Daniel desires his love to you, he was much concerned to hear of my dear Aunts death.
My dear love to Sally Haughton (Cambridge) her Mother in Law, & the family



