The Morning after the night!
1822
Not being very busy in the Shop I mended a pen,
to give you an account of the wedding party, the four
chaises drove into the court in great style to the great
wonder of the passengers, I was not ready to receive
them, being obliged to send the men away early,
the first sight I had of my new sister, was in the drawing
room, surrounded by all my aunts and couzins and
the Malones. during Tea time I collected an[deletion][/deletion] account
of the time passed in Ballitore and was surprised to
hear from some of the parties that it was rather stupid
whether it proceeded from the late death or from the
insipidness of the parties themselves I know not.
After tea for some time there was talking, but the company
would have stood a chance of growing stupid if it was
not for Music & Dancing which some of us kept up 'till
suppertime and even after. The party broke up about one
Oclock.
You speak about being disappointed of your hopes
of making conquests, pray tell [insertion]me[/insertion] who you would make
conquests of, for I do not know any one that was there
that you do not see every day, it cannot be from want
of time which Shews you are a very bad generall on
such occasions.
I do not think you will see me at Easter for My Father
had bespoke me for a Fishing party and to tell you

the truth I would prefer going to see you some other
time when the Fishing season is over for Easter is just
in the season and I do not expect to get out any other
time with my Father.
Frank told me they gave three cheers when they got
out of Ballitore it was so stupid.
Pray do not be so sentimental as not to like the phrase
of [unclear]hauling[/unclear] home for its commonality. I am glad you
had a taste of old times, which I hope will not take
away your relish for times to come for it is the general
cry of people, that the times now are nothing like the
times when they were young, which I think proceeds
[deletion]forward[/deletion] from our aptitude to regret what is out of our
reach and not feeling the value of what [insertion]good[/insertion] we have.
Sunday 24th I went out this morning to Glendruid
to breakfast and spent the day there fishing, but
it was anything but a spring day at the head of Lawless's
Glen we were over taken by a shower of Snow which
obliged us to take Shelter under a brake of holly Bushes
and Rocks, from which I could see the contrast, of the
yellow primrose and the white snow drop (not the flower
on the opposite side of the river After I had written the
last sentence I saw that I had written two useless words,
yellow and white.
I hear that some of our family are going out to the
Glen this week, who they are, I do not know, but
I suppose Eliza is one of them

My way of life is so monatonous that you must
class me as the lowest of your correspondents for
writing that which will entertain you, but I hope
you will take the wish for the deed however you may
prefer the motto of "deeds not words"
I am after reading, a diary of an Invalid by Mathews,
he gives a very entertaining description of Italy and
Switzerland the following is an extract.
"This day & journey was delightful. - It was a May morning
such as you may [underline]read[/underline] of in England, in Isaac Walton's
description. The scenery is always rich and sometimes
romantic. The features of an Italian landscape are very
peculiar. The bold and the grand are constantly blended
with the soft and the beautiful. Thus, amongst the rugged
rocks of Temi, the ilex, the cypress, and the fir, with the
[unclear]g[/unclear]leaves of the other trees of the forest, refresh
the eye with every variety of green; while
the mountain Ash, the acacia, the laburnam,
and the pink flowered Judas tree - all in full blossom - add
a richness, which never belongs to the English landscape.
Of the falls of Temi I will only say, that I enjoyed this charming
scene, with all the embellishments that a lovely
May morning could add to it. The day has its seasons like
the year, and evening - rich in every variety of tint - is its
autumn, to me the most delightful of all the seasons, whether
of the day or year. The rays of the setting sun, playing on the
light foam of the cascade, created innumerable rainbows;
and the trush, whose note is more grateful to my ear, than
that of the nightingale herself - though I believe this preference
must be traced to the all powerful principle of association,

for I have listened to her song in some of the happiest moments
of my life - gave me a concert, in harmony with all around it"
excuse the extract
your John.
Address to the Mummy at [unclear][/unclear]m's exhibition
And thou hast walked about [unclear][/unclear] (how strange a story
In Thebe's Streets 3000 years ago
When the Memnonium was in all its glory
And time had not begun to overthrow
Those temples palaces, and piles stupendous
Of which the very ruins are tremendous
Eliza Gough
Ballitore

