New York 8th Month 28th 1823
My dear friend
I have felt so conscious of
remissness in letting month after month glide
away without writing to so valued correspondent
as thyself, that in a letter to my brother Joseph
a few days ago, I requested him to make a
special apology for my silence, thro' our fair
Cousin Lydia, who, I am sure could have no
objection to add a P.S. to her next Ballitore
Epistle, to serve an old friend. - To save myself
from thy censure I have two reasons to give -
firstly - Commercial affairs have terribly
engrossed my time & ideas since I landed, &
scarcely left me a moment to myself - & secondly,
I was absent in Philadelphia when the last
vessels sailed for Dublin, & consequently I lost
the opportunity of writing to Ballitore by them.
If these two be not sufficient to exculpate me,
I must plead guilty, & trust to thy mercy for
an acquittal. - You will have heard from
Limerick that I had a very short passage

across the Atlantic, which was not much diversified
by incidents, except a gale of wind now & then,
& the increased exertions which an ugly leak
imposed upon the Captain & crew. - The Captain
altho' yet a middle aged man, has been subject
to an unusual share of adventures even for
a sailor - when quite young, he was shipwrecked
on a desert island in the South Pacific Ocean
where he & his companions remained for nearly
a year, subsisting upon wild fowl & their eggs.
before they were relieved by a Scotch brig that
accidentally made the island [deletion]when[/deletion] during a
trading voyage. - The Captain of this brig was
a cruel, hard hearted fellow, who treated the
unfortunate sufferers so harshly that they all
(except our Hero,) deserted the vessel as speedily
as opportunities permitted - He remained as a
kind of Cabin boy & followed the fortunes of
this Captain for several years , without adding
however to his own emolument. - At length he
returned to America after several years
absence, & found that his relatives had long
before given him up as lost. - Having now
acquired that inexplicable love which attaches

sailors to the Ocean, he continued a rover &
gradually advanced to the responsible station
of Captain. - Since then he has had several
escapes from a watery grave - about three years
ago he was 145 days at sea on a voyage
from Greenock to New York during which he
lost his rudder three times & had finally to
construct one out of the Mizen mast which he
cut down for that purpose. - He frequently
entertained us with an account of his
adventures, sitting over the tea table or
enjoying a tumbler of whiskey punch,
whilst our vessel glided swiftly over the waves
& we, for our parts, placed every confidence in
the skill & prudence of a man who had practically
combated all the usual perils of the deep. -
When we first discovered the leak, its formidable
appearance disheartened us, but the Captain thought
no more of it, than one of you would do, if the
"Lydia" were to meet a similar mishap between
the Mill & the bridge. Ever fertile in expedients
he quickly devised measures to check it, & in
a few days, when our ears became accustomed
to the music of the pumps, we thought very
little about it. - I cannot say that I am

fond of the sea, nor that I cordially dislike
it, but as far as choice goes, I would prefer
land travelling for comfort. - To be cooped
up in so small a house for a month or more,
to have the incessant rolling & creaking of the
ship, & in rough weather to devour your meals
as you can, at the imminent risk of broken bones
- are no small deductions from the sum total
of delights, which a fine blue sky & "bounding
billows" create in a cultivated mind. -
One of our sailors, a stout, intrepid fellow, had
been shipwrecked nine times - the last, he was
one of four saved out of 180 souls which were
on board a Dutch East Indiaman when she
foundered during a violent hurricane in the
South sea! I asked him if he were not
afraid of the Ocean after such repeated
misfortunes - "No" said he "on the contrary
"I would prefer being drowned to dying on
"shore, it would be so much [insertion]more[/insertion] in character for
"a sailor"! We saw one large Ice island
near the Banks of Newfoundland, but it was
at a considerable distance - too far, to give us
a good view of it. - it appeared like silver.

