Ballitore: 18/4 month 1782.
Peggy Grubb 6 years married to day.

My dear Cousin,

	I was often pondering in my mind what could cause thy long silence, having received no answer I believe to my last Letter till I lately got thine without date, which was accompanied by one from thy daughter to mine. During this interval of silence I had made an excursion into Munster, was at the Quarterly Meeting at Waterford, & spent about a week with Peggy in Clonmel -- From thence I went with Edward Hatton (who called upon me in his way from Cork) to our Quarterly Meeting at Mountmelick -- Our friends in those parts were I think generally well, & by accounts since from Peggy I find they have been mostly well. My tour was pleasing -- I met divers of my family at Mountmelick, & we came home together -- Sally Watson paid us a very agreeable visit of a few weeks before & after the Meeting -- Also John Killconners wife & her mother came & staid two nights with us -- Its very satisfactory to be favoured with the kind regards of our friends; & a subject of humble thankfulness to enjoy their company & the conveniences of life, with tranquillity & ease -- It is a world of dissipation, folly & wickedness, & the peculiar mercy of the Almighty Controler [sic] of the Universe, that such a degree of peace & order is preserved among us. We should endeavour in all humility & with our best diligence to improve it, so as to be taking deep root in Divine Favour, that if storms & tempests should come, we might know such a stability as not to be greatly moved -- Thou rightly judged, my dear friend, that the welfare of thee & thine is near my heart -- & I trust that the rising generation in your house will in true humility & reverent Fear so cultivate, so seek after the renewings of the visitation of Truth to their spirits, that when troubles shall as it were besiege their dwellings, they may have laid up in store a stock of effectual support & supply -- It is folly & madness for any to expect real happiness & comfort hereafter without looking to the Lord for his blessing & helps: A multitude of things not at all under human control springing up from innumerable causes may make us discontented, unhappy & miserable. But endeavouring to keep the conscience clean & undefiled, we are enabled & emboldened to look up with filial reverence to the Father of all sure mercies, & to cast our care upon Him -- Thy Letter, my dear Cousin, contains several pleasing intimations, but none more strikingly so than that of our dear aged friend James Moretons being likely to be at the half-years Meeting. It was a pleasure which I did not expect. Please remember us very affectionately to him, & say that I believe I would make reply now to his last very kind favour, but that I expect in so short a time to have opportunity of conversing with him. I hope the good old man does not attribute my silence to want of affectionate Respect for him. Sadness necessarily covers my spirits on perusing some of thy hints -- I have seldom known such deep distress on a merely-religious account, as I have felt on the apprehension of the danger which I fear some there may be in: And the more my soul is united to the Cause, & the closer I have been connected with individuals concerned in it, the deeper has been my baptism into suffering. May the spirit of Christ clothe us, & his Wisdom guide us, if he should allot any service to any of us in the present lamentable case! -- I was lately to see them at Athy, spent two nights there. Thy mother full as well as might be expected, the rest finely -- Your visit to us in these parts will be very acceptable I believe -- Its not well to anticipate sorrow, & a disappointment often attends the anticipation of Joy. The present moment only is ours. It would be very desirable to me to have your company here; but I have several times missed of thine when thou hast been hereaway -- how it will be now I cannot yet tell. I think I have no option either to go abroad or stay at home. All I covet in that respect is to be preserved in a state of acceptance with my Creator, whether I be any thing, or nothing -- And this disposition I wish to grow & take firm root in my mind -- For if we ever should hanker after pre-eminence, we are then in the way of the dragons tail, in danger of being cast from heaven to earth.
	I am glad thy brother James has better spirits -- I wish him not to be cast down below hope -- May he be enabled in simplicity & integrity to do his duty, & leave the issue! Right must in the end prevail. But there is great need of Patience, as well as Wisdom. Please give our dear love to him & his wife. I hope to see them both at the Meeting. Also salute me to Cousin Richard Pike & his wife -- I suppose we shall have the pleasure of seeing them there also. Elizabeth Pike has been long indisposed, but by accounts appears to be recruiting -- Joseph Barcrofts wife is dead, & I understand Joseph Willcockss likewise -- Tom Thacker dead, & Molly Barcroft not like to live -- Also a daughter of William Jacksons of the Coomb likely to go off in a decay -- Its probable thou hast heard before of the sudden death & sudden burial of Robert Morris Lecky of Carlow. Its possibly my Sally would have taken this opportunity of answering thy Peggys Letter, but she is on a visit to Athy. But that Peggy may not go without a portion in this packet, Molly sends her some lines which she wrote on the dreadful catastrophe of our dear friends -- Since the piece was written the body of poor Jo Sparrow (as believed by a variety of circumstances) has been found & interred -- His poor father & mother have grieved exceedingly -- but time will help to assuage. The young woman too, their intended daughter-in-law, from several Letters which I have seen of hers on the occasion, seems to have felt exquisite pain, & to be a young woman of good sense & religious experience. I think I did not before mention that we are favoured here with a good degree of health -- My wife almost every morning complains of Rheumatick pains, but is able to get about as usual -- Our two families unite in cordial salutation to every branch of thine from the eldest to the youngest.
	I am my dear debbys [sic]
		very affectionate friend & kinsman
			Richard Shackleton

