Dear Cousin
Selby 10th of 7 mo" 1786
Mary Shackleton,
I wrote a letter to London thinking some of your
Family would be there, whe had the Pleasure of having a Letter from
thy Brother, by a Selby Frd. who was with him at Notting[unclear]ham[/unclear]
but was supprised when we heard he had been at Castlefd. at
B. Birkbeck's, and did not come down to Selby for he was within
10 or 12 Miles of us. my Father & Mother would abeen pleased to seen him
if it had suited, but I suppose time would not allow for him to [insertion]have[/insertion] left
his Company, I wisht I had known of him beeing at Leeds or Castlefd.
I would have met him there. for more one knows of such Frds. &
Relations the better it is for one. Dear Cousin thou mentions thou
hopes I will not take it amiss, in the Liberty thou takes in
writing to me, I do not, but am pleased at thee for being so free as
to write thy mind which I am sensable is the case that the
more we go into the World, the more we expose our selves to temptations,
but I hope by the help of kind providence, to let them see
that I neither intend to wear a Red Coat, nor marry from a mongst
Friends. since my Sister got marryed People as been pleased to say
many untrouth's of me. and some very hard things, but I do not mind
what they say of me so that I know myself clear, it is because we
are not so free as we was before for I must own I cannot look on
her with pleasure, when I think what She as done & what She
said to my Father only 3 or 4 Days before, and I myself told her
at Pally Armitages that if She Marryed from a mongst Friends
I never would go to see her so long as I lived, and She promist
me She never would - but that is over now, and they say I should
go to see her - I believe it Frets her now to think I have taken it
so close to me, for I know my Cousin Armitages was not in their
places, before the Marriage for Pally told Jane, I should be
as kind as ever in a few weeks and be at Jane house over often
but I never have been to see her as yet she some times comes
to our House. but have not had much talk - nor I never have
been at Cally Armitages since; for I am shure it had not abeen
if She had not a helped it forwards --

I expect Cousin Abrm would tell thee of my proceedings when he
arrived at Ballitore, as I hope he got well home, - he asked Wm
Fawcitt if I was in Love. because I mentioned in my letter of being
powerly - to be sure I met with a disappointment, but did not let
it lay so close to me as that when you was at Selby, with Jane
English, for there I had let ought my affection's when very young,
This young Woman belongs our Month Meeting. should have offer'd before
but my Sister Jane thought she was over high for me, but since she
got Marryed I have been so dull and finds the loss of a good Sister
in all Respects, with Marrying so contrary to our Religious Society
that it as made me think more of getting Sattled and endeavor to live
in good esteem with Friends, and it is what my Father & Mother both
would be pleased to see me sattled - her Name [insertion]his[/insertion] Mary Wright I asked
her Father consent he gave me it. I went to see her twice but
found she was ingaged to a young man that was learning to be
a farmer with her Father. - but the fun of it was, when thy
Brother was talking to Wm Fawcitt there - there was in the room ayoung
man from Selby arival one of Thos. Procter sons, when he heard of
me going he whent and after he had been he came down to our House
and discharged me from going, but I told him I would go let me use
who I would ill, for thought I should use myself worse if I did not
go when I had told her of going. Wm. Fawcitt told me thy Brother
bid me not to be discouraged there was plenty of young women
Friends - and have only offered to two and have not had a fair
chance yet. for they were both ingaged - so mind third Time -
but let me tell [insertion]thee[/insertion] the young Woman's Father new nothing of her being
ingaged to this Young Man when I asked him, for he had left
him but when I whent second time he was there & then the
Father told me he did not know of Pally & him being ingaged, or
I had all the incourigement could have wisht for - till I so
him there, and then I feared coulars. & she would not give me
her company ----

We parted and have not seen her since. Our Quarterly Meeting was at
York last wee, I whent on fourth day morning and came to Selby
on Sixth day my Mother did intend to have gon but my Father
had a bad fit on second day, so she could not be easey to leave
him all Night, -- but my Mother and me was at the Month=Meeting
on fifth day last. we came back that Night, my Mother
was tyard tho I think she bid it well for it is Thirty Miles,
Easter Juke was not at the Meeting, my Mother whent to see Cousin
Jane Harley she was well her Husband was at Scarborough, --
there was Cousin Frank & his Wife at the Quarter Meeting and
Robert Holborn & his wife Cousin Grace from Hull we all was
at my Aunt Shackleton's - my Cousin Rebecca Peacock was well
and her little ones, but I am sorry to say there his a fear of her
Marrying from Friends I believe Frds as paid her visits but
does not find much satisfaction -- We had the company of that
worthy Friend Zacharaias Dicks at York Qt Meeting and some worthy
remarks he as left amongst us when in the Meeting of Business -
the last time I was at Castleford Jane Birkbeck & her Sister Peggy
desired me to give their Loves to thy Brother, and any of your Family
when I wrote. I was pleased to receive thy Letter and likewise thy
Brother's but should have been [insertion]more[/insertion] pleased to seen him at Selby, I hope
he will not forget to write to me as it seems the only way at present
to keep up our acquaintance My Father and Mother both joines
with me in kind Love to thee, thy Father and Mother Brother
and Sisters at Home, and all Brother's & Sisters elsewhear --
My Unkle and Aunt Armitage desire their Loves to thee and
Thy Father, likewise Cousin Sally's Love to self
shall be pleased to have a letter }
from thee or any of your Family }
and excuse mine - }
from thy Loving Cousin
Sam Webster

Samuel Webster
Selby 10/7 mo: 1786
ansd. 25 -
Mary Shackleton
Ballitore
single sheet // Ireland
12 / 21

