Waterford 15 June 1807
A few weeks since I committed to the care
of a traveller I casually met with, a few hasty
lines to drop on Mount Bleak, notifying
my expectations of procuring 50 subscribers to
my dear Cousin Mary's publication: I now have
to say, my hopes are realized; the names given
me exceed that number. Lest the notice I sent
before may have miscarried I think it best
to repeat that John Bull Bookseller is among
the subscribers who would take Six Copies
on condition of their being rated as customary
to those who sell again which he says
is about 5/8 - pray write me on this head,
also enable me to satisfy the inquisitive
as to the time the Book may be expected.
I may remark that a young man who
has lately been in Cork brings word that

no Poetry is to be given to the world -but that
some letters are to be published. I applied to
Joshua Strongman the father of the family & by his
influence & the exertion of his daughter Sarah
got orders for 16 copies. I had the pleasure of
seeing John Elsey here some time since on
his way to England going to recruit for
promotion - he is still no higher than Lieutenant
but hoped for a Captaincy soon & would endeavour
to move into a Regiment which
should not be disbanded at the conclusion
of the war. He is a second time a widower.
His Ballitore acquaintances still hold a
high place in his estimation. Pray what
became of Charles Coote? Did he assert any
claim after his Father's death, & with what
success? I have heard with pleasure that
the School is in a fair way of recovering

part of its former celebrity. Pray now has
Ebenezer's mercantile plan succeeded? - he
appeared to be a smart young fellow.
Since our commencement in business we have
got a tolerable share of publick favour - so
as to keep hope alive - if we could add
a little to our stock I apprehend it would
be better - shall endeavour as much as possible
to avoid giving credit indeed much has not
been hitherto required. My wife met with
considerable civility & confidence from perfect
strangers in Dublin as she had no introduction
nor did we seek any having determined
to creep before we would attempt
to walk. I should be pleased to hear you
all continue in the enjoyment of your comforts
I wish to be particularly remembered to Cousin
Sarah. I am joined by Rebecca in good
wishes for you all & remain sincerely yours
William Rayner

Mary Leadbeater
Ballitore
Wm Rayner
Waterford 15/6 mo: 1807

