From the same to the same.  [in pencil] omit
Ballitore: 3/12 month 1780


My dear James,


++ Robert Lacky and I were appointed to our family-visit, with permission to take along with us in our progress such friends male or female as we might think suitable - Dear Robert seemed in a state of body unfit for the service - [page number] 200 the reasonable, established duty occupied my thoughts. For my wife & me to go by ourselves on it seemed unsuitable - to invite any ministry friend to join us, I was afraid, lest I should draw any by my invitation, who should wait for the drawings of Truth, to lead them into such services out of their own monthly meetings - But our friend Sarah Newland feeling a concern to attend my Debbys marriage, I was free before she left us to lay our situation before her, at the same time intimating that I thought publick friends should feel their own way on such occasions - She took the matter into her mind, & when we went to Dublin, told my wife that she was most easy to join us. So we three went on the service, taking with us different persons in different places, as co-adjutors, or witnesses. And with thankfulness we have to acknowledge that we were helped in every way, I hope with best help in some degree, pretty fully to complete the visit. Thy country-men Robert Grubb, Josiah White, Edward Hatton & Joseph Garratt happened at several times to fall in with us. The two last afforded help in time of need. I believe just in right season we visited our dear, ancient Robert Lecky; much good was towards him, and he seemed much pleased with the visit. He departed this life a few days after in a quiet, composed manner, and having, I believe, always been a man of integrity, a lover of Truth and the Friends of it, and having constantly taken the right side, as I told him, in the Church militant on earth. I think there is good ground to hope that, through Infinite mercy, his spirit ranks with the Saints in the light triumphant in heaven. His funeral was very large, as might be expected, - Joseph Tomey attended it and preached to a numerous audience who were remarkably quiet & still- He has left two fine, hopeful young men, his sons: and John Watson of Ballydarton, and his cousin Sally Watson seem also at present religiously inclined, and disposed to come up in service, to my great satisfaction. So that if [page number] 201 these young trees thrive and bear fruit, though the old be removed, the garden of Kilconner will not be wholly desolate. And for this my poor spirit bows at times in deep travail, that the gracious visitations of Heaven may not be in vain to any, nor a grain of the spirit precious, invaluable seed of the kingdom lost. Indeed the visits paid in course to my own family, & to my son's were humbling, memorable, and I trust will have left impressions not easily to be erased. 
Debbys marriage was solemnized on the day appointed. I trust Good was near, and all was well. The next day was their week-day meeting at Athy - Sarah Newland had a mind to be at it - We took the Bride thither, first to meeting, which was remarkably favoured, & afterwards to her own home, where we left her in the hands of a kind Providence and an affectionate, valuable husband a man of worth, good sense & religion. +++ Most of my family & the new-married pair were at the National meeting - it was not I hope not an unprofitable time - John Gough was eminent in the exercise of his gift. His service in the concluding meeting of ministers and elders was searching, deep and solemn; he bore the bell without dispute +++
