Jos. Nicholson's, Bornamear Charlemount, 30th.8th.mo:1793
My Dear Friend
Mary Leadbeater.
I marvel not the tuneful Tribe should sing
Theirs is the Skill to touch the tuneful String
But mimic fools, with no poetic fire
They too Sometimes attempt to tune the Lyre
Forgive th' attempt; fools will be fools tis known,
Nor be at rest until their folly's Shewn.
I felt thee near, dear heart; but must I hence,
For sake of rhyme, with reason's rules dispense;
And scribble nonsense, when I might attain
In sober prose, what might not give thee pains
But rhymeing's catching: for, I often spurn it,
And when I've wrote a gingling scroll, I burn it.
Perhaps, not praiz'd, the reason I despise it;
Let Burk commend, and then I soon might prize it.
That's not my portion; no such praise is mine;
I sing unprais'd, and but in darkness shine.
yet I am happy; -- no such praise I crave;
I'm well content, with just the powers I have:
My face is homely, yet it suits me well;
And might I change it, [underline]how[/underline] I could not tell.
One change I wish, and none beside desire:
A change of heart, to holiness entire;
All filth remov'd, each sinful motion curb'd;
My heart the Throne of Jesus undisturb'd.
This, this I wish; for this I pray and strive.
This is the growth in which I long to thrive. But
him, dear Job called me to him, & said I might put this
in a note to this letter.
16th of 11th..mo:1793 When the small pox was upon
[mark] My face is homely, yet it suits me well,
But soon I'll change it - they who see can' tell.

But Oh! Maria! Satan has decree'd,
(And sworn his Legions to promote the deed,)
That none shall conquer, whom he can prevent;
Nor will he cease till all his shafts are spent:
On ev'ry side; before, behind, within,
He lurks in ambush; or with open din,
Assails the Soul, its progress to withstand;
And non Shall crush him but that chosen band,
who give up all, and die, to live again;
Resist to blood; and conquer when they'r slain.
Alas! too few consent through death to live;
And all they have, for endless life, to give.
We like the pearl; but sorely dread the price;
Ere once we pay it; we resolve it thrice:
Resolve it oft, and oft attempt to pay,
But, death's so dreadfull, still we choose delay.
Anon, alarm'd left other death devour,
We vow allegiance; and perform, - an hour.
An hour. -- alass! Short liv'd allegiance this!
Is this in purchase of immortal bliss?
If One short hour our courage all exhaust,
Farewell, Salvation! Must we then be Lost?
Lost! -- Who can bear it? -- No: -- we'll try again;
We'll fight for life: We'll conquer, or be slain.
Again equipt, Once more the fight ensues;
And Man's faint heart, near ev'ry battle: Shews.
He fights by fits; then faints, and flaggs, and yields;
Goes vaunting forth; but -- trembling quits the fields! is
Is

Is this the warrior that the prize shall win,
Who quits the field for one beloved sin?
Who turns his back, when he should fight for life:
Ignobly yields; and quits the glorious strife?
I tell thee nay; dear friend; On this rely;
who saves his life, shall surely, surely die.
The Lord of life in agonies expir'd;
And each firm follower is this day requir'd
To tread the path which he to glory trod!
Nor shun the flame, nor shrink beneath the rod.
But Satan's darts, to none are more severe,
Than the choice few who firmliest adhere
To wisdom's ways, and wage bold war with sense:
These, he still strives by ev'ry fine pretence,
To lead astray: He'll lying, promise life
Tho' they transgress, and quit the virtuous strife,
Relax the watch; forbidden loves embrace;
And doubt Jehovah's mandate to his face.
Oh! Wiley Serpent! How he twists, and twines!
I've seen his Snares: - I've trac'd his dark designs.
In dear New-England some he's trapt of yore;
And some he fain would trap at Ballatore.
May god almightly his designs defeat,
And ev'ry work, that's well begun, complete.
[underline]You[/underline] have my prayers, dear hearts; may I have yours:
And he shall reign, who to the end endures.
T'was love engag'd me these few lines to send:
And, In that Love,
P.S. A line from thee, if thou'lt a line expose
Free from the heart, unhamper'd as it flows;
Shall come, I trust, as welcome as this goes. }
I am thy constant friend
Job Scott
* Including all the tried losses & tempting among you
at that place. - My love to you all ~

Mary Leadbeater
Ballitore
Job Scott
Berna: 3 of 8 mo: 1793
Ansd 17/9 -

