Lisburn Sept. 23rd. 1815
My dear Friend
My father desires me to enclose thy
account with the Proprietors of the Magazine, &
to say that E S Lees only returned an account of
£5 paid by thee, the receipt for £1s.5, has been since
received from Samuel Haughton. My father also
desires me to request thee to let him know the dates
on which the remainder of the money was paid to
Lees, as he wishes to get the accounts speedily settled.
Did M Trench decline taking the last 5 Nos?
Please look over thy papers as soon as convenient for
the receipts; the Proprietors owe a balance to ES Lees,
the state of the accounts renders a speedy settlement
desirable, & a receipt from Lees is of as much value
to the Proprietors as a payment to the agent in Belfast.
I hope Eben & Deborah Shackleton have quite
recovered from the fatigues of their journey. My
Father has been very ill since they were in Lisburn.
Indeed so much were we alarmed at some of the
symptoms, that we at length prevailed on him to
send for a physician. We hope his illness proceeds
from a severe cold, & that the fears which we have

had respecting water on the chest may prove groundless.
Yet while the pain in his chest continues we
cannot look forward without the most painful
apprehensions. The pain in his chest, & the difficulty
of breathing have encreased very much of late.
He is confined to the house, & for some days past
he did not get down stairs until after breakfast.
I lately received a letter which I enclose
to thee. I do not know what abilities Miss Nicloux
may possess for writing Tales in French. If they are
well written I think the title of the book is promising
but I must acknowledge that M. S. Balfour's recommendation
has no weight with me. At the
request of a lady whom I esteemed for some heroic
fortitude displayed in 1798, I zealously sought
for subscriptions for M S Balfour; a little more
acquaintance with the world has lessened my
Quixottic disposition, & I should not ever wish
voluntarily to submit to the many mortifications
with which I met on that occasion- Perhaps this
is a wrong feeling, but so many persons subscribe
because they are so polite as to wish to pay a compliment
to the person who requests the subscription,
that nothing will ever induce me to solicit subscriptions.

It may truly be said that there are some cases in
which it is justifiable to seek subscriptions previous
to the publication of a book, but in general it is
better to let a book depend on its own merit for
sale. M S Balfour left Newtownlimavaddy very
soon after her poems were published, & although she
has resided some years in Belfast, I have never
seen her. My father has always wished me to be
very select in my acquaintances, & I now rejoice
that his advice to me has not been without good
effects, as neither M S Balfour nor her sisters have
preserved characters for honour & integrity in some
[unclear][/unclear] transactions respecting the failure
[unclear][/unclear] of their brother; of course I rejoice in
prudence overcoming all those romantic feelings
which were aroused by the narration of the sentimentalists
who patronized the Balfours. If
Miss Nicloux's book should be thought useful in
James White's school, or that any other persons should
wish to subscribe, thou may return the names to
me & I will add them to the list of subscribers.
Please ask Betsy Shackleton if she has lost
all her pens, & broken her ink stand.
Very truly & sincerely thy friend
S Hancock

My father desires me to request thee to explain the
cause of only 7 magazines being sent from July to Decr..
1814. I shall thank thee to forward the enclosed
parcel to M Haughton by the first opportunity.
ansd 8/10 mo:
Mary Leadbeater

