ON A Visit Paid to BALLITORE By
EDMUND BURKE
& HIS Son, 10th: mo: 1786:
And what, tho' Winter's herald hoar
Rudely deforms the trembling spray,
The cheerful vale of Ballitore,
O was it ever half so gay?
What caused this sudden strange delight?
Has Summer turned her steps again?
Or does some Comet's radiant flight
This burst of loud applause obtain?
More radiant than the comet's flight,
More welcome than the Summer's day,
'Tis Burke our ever-new delight,
'Tis Burke appears, & all is gay.
O fond illusion, idle dream,
Let not these vain ideas rise;
Will he to Griese's silent stream
Withdraw him from a nation's eyes?
When

When pomp, & fame, & wealth, & power,
All court him to the splendid seat,
Will he prefer the rural bower,
And from admiring crowds retreat?
He will - that heart no fetters bind
Repressing Memory's grateful swell,
And simple Nature pleased that mind,
Where all the nobler virtues dwell.
And still he owns this classick shade,
And still this classick shade he loves,
Where once a careless youth he strayed,
Where now a wondrous man he moves.
With love, with admiration warm;
Behold us fondly gather round,
To gaze upon that princely form,
And hear once more the man renowned.
His cordial smile our zeal rewards,
His soothing words our hearts engage;
His noble courtesy regards
The poor man's venerable age.
And he, the + Youth, whose cultur'd taste
A polish'd court's attention drew,
Ad:
+ young Burke was paid particular attention to at
the court of France, about a year before.

Admires the scenes his father traced,
And greets the friends his father knew.
And you, ye blooming stripling-train,
This age's hope, this valley's pride;
What honest rapture filled each vein!
How beat each heart, while Burke you eyed!
"And this is he, the child of fame,
" Who trod our walks, from care as free,
" Now Indian echoes sound his name -
" Like him O shall we ever be"?
Adventurous youths! such talents rare
Hath prescient Heaven to few assign'd;
But all to imitate may dare
The virtues of that generous mind.
Here let your just desires be found,
The prize shall well the toil requite;
'Tis only with such virtues crown'd
Such splendid talents shine so bright. M:S:

