Ballitore 5/10 month 1783.
My dear Cousin,
	I am much gratified by thy kind, affectionate Letter of 10th ultimate. Whatever thou may think of thy talent of Letter-writing, thy correspondence is always particularly pleasing to me, & this is the first of my putting pen to paper (that I remember) since my last Return from home -- Thy last mentions the afflicted family at Killconner. Thou hast since heard that it proved consistent with infinite Wisdom to remove out of this life our dear friend Robert Watson -- I was by his bed-side when he drew his last breath: he seemed to go off exceedingly easy, with so little struggle that I could not for a time ascertain whether he was gone, or not. This is a favour, but a still greater that there is a hope that he died in the Lord: he had been a visited young-man & was religiously disposed. I was with him many times for several days before his departure, & his expressions denoted a solid, awful sense of his approaching change: he reprobated in himself & others the eager pursuit of the world & grasping at extensive gain, which was often disappointed (& particularly in his own case): he condemned that trade which consists in victualling armed ships in time of war, as supporting that unchristian practice, & utterly unlawful for those of our society to be concerned in. In short he gave many evident tokens of an illuminated mind, that was mercifully prepared for the solemn decision. The Physicians thought his disorder was a putrid fever, & that his remains should be intered [sic] as soon as convenient; but on keeping the body about 27 hours, there appeared no sign of putridity; so it was kept another night. I saw it decently laid in the grave at Ballybrumhill, & proceeded from thence home. I had much satisfaction in paying the duties of Friendship to that house: there were three widows, Anne Penrose, her daughter Nancy, & Molly Watson, besides dear Sally the brother ^sister^ of the deceased, who seemed as much a widow as any of them. They are now all gone to Waterford. A steward occupies the lonesome house of Killconner. Whether it will be let to anyone during the minority of the eldest son (who is at school here) is uncertain: its hardly likely that a suitable tenant would take it for so short a term. Perhaps in some time the young widow & her mother may turn their eyes towards that place, which may appear in a while less dismal: objects seem gloomy when viewed through the mist of tears: these a Gracious hand wipes at seasons from our eyes. As the two brothers died so near one another (though I believe of very different disorders) people were shy of coming to the house, for fear of the infection. I was preserved from that fear, & also from danger, through the Kindness of Providence. I staid a day at home, & went with my wife, Lydia, & Sally to the Province-meeting of Moat. When we were about an hour in the first meeting, the American friends, with their retinue, walked in. The province-meeting was favoured with lively testimonies, & I hope in degree owned by the Master of our assemblies. The Americans proceeded on their service in that quarter: Mary Ridgway & Jane Watson remained to perform a family visit through that Monthly meeting: Isaac Jackson & I accompanied them. We went fully through that business in the Meetings of Moat, Ballymurry, ^Tullamore,^ & Ballinakill, much to my satisfaction: a degree of best help & best wisdom (I trust) was near. I lay at Athy on my return, found them all well there, & was favoured in good health to meet my family in good health the next day 30th ultimate Rachel Wright (Abys house-keeper) had been ill, but recovering finely. Aby followed us to Moat: he hastened home to his business, which is happily increasing; but my wife & Lydia were detained a day or two among their friends in Mountmelick by getting the Chaise repaired. Though religion is at a low ebb in many or most of the families of Friends, yet I believe there is a seed up & down worth cultivating; & though in the line of this service one may at times be disappointed, finding things worse in some places than might be hoped; yet in other places, where little was expected, unexpected Good was found: as the fruitful land has been turned into barrenness, so again the desert has rejoiced & blossomed as the rose. John Pemberton found a concern to have a meeting with the people at Sligo: his companion (its like) had not such a draught. Poor dear John therefore went without him, accompanied by old Nathan Nevitt & Joseph Nicholson (whom my wife calls that pretty child. [sic] They returned to Ballimurry while we were there. John was not quite easy, thought & still thinks (I suppose) that he left Sligo too soon. Since I saw him I was unexpectedly favoured with a Letter from him, which informs me that his wife & friends (by accounts received) were in usual health, which tended to revive his drooping mind. He writes that his brother & other concerned Friends were under much concern lest the Good many in their country reaped in a day of close exercise should be much lost by letting out the mind, & being plunged into a multiplicity of business, now the channels of trade are opened. Our City is like a fair; much Goods & many Purchasers, & more money circulating than was expected. Those persons who laboured to trouble Friends are erecting a Meeting-house for themselves: so that hope they will drop giving further trouble: they are reduced to a few. So John is informed by his brother. John also says he had a Letter from Robert Valentine (dated at York 2d ultimate,) who was well, as were William & Esther Tuke & children. RV purposed to take Meetings in Yorkshire till the Quarterly meetings there. John writes that Nicholas Waln was gone towards Bristol: that T: Green had been at the general meeting in Manchester 1st ultimate, & (as I understand him) was then going to Scarborough. John mentions a woman-friend about coming over from America on a religious visit; also that some others were preparing. He adds, I have also a Letter from our friend Thomas Lightfoot, who was well 18/7 month & he tells me that his step-son Robert Hatton (in whom there is a great & good change since his worthy mothers decease) continues steady, & has a lively testimony in their meetings. So here are good tidings upon good tidings -- I remark what thou says about doubting in some case, & giving a preference to my judgment in others. I think I am not apt, my dear Cousin, to be very sanguine in my expectations. Experience has taught me more sobriety. I rather think I express myself more diffidently. Perhaps I had a mind to raise an encouraging hope in thee, & indulge one in myself. I know not how it will be, till we have opportunity to see & feel for ourselves, as thou rightly says. In the mean time, let us hope for the best, & prepare against the worst, which may happen: & the best preparation that I know of is to seek to put on Christ, that Spirit, which is wisdom without artifice; Courage without Obstinacy, & Meekness without Fear -- However, whether sanguine or not, I acknowledge I have rejoiced over that young plant of yours, that root out of a dry ground, Jo Nicholson; & my soul hath been humbled within me in thankfulness for the tender visitation of Love extended towards him; much more since I parted him than when I was present with him. I heartily desire his stability & growth, & particularly that he may be preserved out of the commotions, divisions & parties, which if continued will be in danger to rend the church in your province, & make your desolation more desolate --- Mayst tell Cousins R & W Pike that we forced an opportunity when we went on the family-visit, at William Sprouts of Athlone. I got possession of the house, unasked, surprised the head of the family before he was aware, made my way into the parlour, held his wife in captivity with small chat, & kept Garrison till I got the other friends my companions to join me: when we had a solid, close opportunity with the Parents, & such of the children as were at home, I afterwards unburdened myself to William, no other person present. We partook of none of their carnal things, dined at the inn. I have little expectation of any good effect to them arising from the visit: they do not come to Meetings, yet do not declare off. I met with a pretty tender-spirited girl about 15 years of age, daughter of William Reddock in Tullamore: they say she is very ingenious: if any of thy friends wanted such an one as a servant, please let me know. She is in a poor place for growing in Good -- Joseph Inmans Suit with his Landlord came on at the assizes of Philipstown. The jury gave a special Verdict. So it was not decided there, but is to be heard before the Barons (I suppose) in Dublin, if the Landlord preserves; which is doubtful. Its like thou heard that William Knott had got a young son. I am told that there were bonfires & demonstrations of joy in his neighborhood, for the happy event. The accounts (when we have any) from Peggy Grubb confirm her being well. My son went to see Johny Lecky lately: he brings that Johny looked poorly & was far from being in a good state of health. I have not heard further for some days past. -- I had a letter from Samuel Neale while I was abroad, respecting the National visit to this Province. I consulted friends where I was, & returned him an answer, & the most eligible plan of arrangement of Meetings that occurred to us, desiring him (if he approved of it) to advise the Friends appointed in your province & elsewhere, that it might be gone upon. But as the Americans have gone into Munster since he wrote me, perhaps he will be loath to leave his province while they are in it, & so the visit be deferred. I have not since heard from him. -- I am obliged to thee for all thy tender care about our dear Molly. Stramore has got to be very near her heart, & I am very well pleased that it should be so. I wish our families to be united together in one union which is stronger than worldly interest, or any other natural tie, even an holy bond, & a joint concern for the promotion of the one Good Cause, in our several generations. In order to which, we should each keep up a diligent watch over ourselves, lest an insidious assiduous adversary make an inroad on any of us by assaulting the weak side. We have each of us need to guard against that particular Sin or Failing, which most easily besets us, & to experience renewedly those Baptisms, which cleanse from the defilements both of flesh & spirit. I leave to thy management about getting Molly to Dublin at the ensuing Meeting, if no suitable opportunity offer sooner. I expect that though Stramore is near, yet Ballitore is next her heart. We have long given up her agreeable society: perhaps the winter evenings may make us some amends. But we are poor uncertain creatures: very uncertain indeed how long publick or private tranquillity will continue. For my part, I see little of this world certain but trouble: and there appears to me great necessity for each of us to dig deep, that we may get to know that Rock, on which we may safely build, even the Revelation of Truth in the inward parts, & the feeling sense of its divine energy in the Soul -- Ye heard (no doubt) of the decease of poor Joseph Tomey. He had one wave of affliction after another pursuing him to the last: but his greatest enemies were those of his own home. It is to be hoped that he is now at rest from them all. -- Is it not high time for me now to conclude? Besure we all join in sentiments of near & dear affection to you all, from the worthy old man to Molly MccLoughlin inclusive. I include herein your near connexions in Moyallon & Lurgan, also dear old James Morton, Johny Christy, &c. &c.
I am, my dear Debby,
Thy truly affectionate friend & kinsman
Richard Shackleton
P.s. We visited Atkins of Ballyroan -- I believe is (in thy dear fathers phrase) a sorry fellow. His poor wife told me their son had married-out.

