Dublin Septr. 1820
My dear Eliza
I take up my pen to indite a few lines to you
in excuse for my not answering your letter sooner, I must plead
want of time and inclination, not that I had no wish to write to you
but a person must have a certain desire for doing anything before
he will set about it; Thinking of your reproaches urged me on, so
that I have at last sat down to begin it, not with a very tired hand
you may guess. I Begg of you never to write to me again when your
hand is tired or when you are in any State of mind, which will deprive
me of the pleasure of hearing from you with that degree of relish
with which I would receive a letter that I knew you had written
when you were not Shackled by time or, the dread of appearing
careless to my eyes whether you answered or not
With respect to your wish that I should go down to see you; it is out
of my power to gain so much time, without inconveniencing others,
which I cannot bear to do. I hope your day dream may be accomplished
[deletion]soon[/deletion] and that I may be a partner in your pleasure when it does
come, for nothing can equal the pleasure which a person feels
in shewing to others a beautiful view when he knows that [deletion]those[/deletion]
those persons feelings accord with his own, and also in watching
the effect of it on the countenances of your friends. The pleasure a

painter feels after he has finished a fine painting must be equal.
if not Superior to it when he sees the first effect of his work on the
spectators.
It is surprising how habit makes a person bear the most disagreeable
life or indeed to become in some manner attached to it, for there
are some persons, who when they change their employment, though
it may be more agreeable or better on the whole yet they regret after it.
The mind is indeed a kingdom, it is surprising to think to what a
degree it may be cultivated; for when you look at objects that I have
seen in this city and who you will see basking in the sun of a hot
summers day in the streets, to think of the difference between the minds
of such men and the minds of [deletion]such men as[/deletion] Baron Hume and
others of the great men of those days - fills the mind with astonishment.
I have never read any of Stewarts works or indeed any
work on Moral Philosophy.
You ask me do I remember the sun the sea and the dust on a
certain evening, indeed I do for the dust was not thick enough
to smother the remembrance of the other two. Have you read
Ivanhoe or the Monastery and what do you think of them;
I have read part of the Abbot or sequel to the Monastery. if
you have never read the history of Scotland in Mary's time
I recommend you to peruse it before you read the Abbot.

as it will make you better understand the events that
are mentioned in it.
Will you tell me in your next letter what plan of education you
pursue in your school, whether it is the Lancasterian System or
that of Pestalozzi, explain to me if it is not asking to much of your
time in what manner you conduct the school; also how you
get through that form of reading the Bible which seems to be the
great bone of contention be[insertion]tween[/insertion] the Prostestant & Catholic charity men
If there is any part of the modern mode of education to be exploded
it ought to be that of requiring the Bible to be read by the children
for how can they understand that which older and better infor[unclear]med[/unclear]
persons are making such differences about. I verily believe [unclear][/unclear]
have been better for the [deletion][/deletion] world ere this present moment if it had
never been read by any one, for though there may be excellent maxims
in it yet there are parts that have caused more differences
between man and man than any other subject since the
religion was founded.
Expecting an answer to this
I remain yours John.

Eliza Gough
Ballitore

