[1774]
My dear Cousin,
I must own i did [insertion]not[/insertion] deserve to be favoured
with a second letter from thee, as I so long neglected to answer
the first; but my Mother was still in such a hurry when she
wrote that she did not remember to let me know in time to enclose
a letter with her's: but I should be very ungrateful if I neglected
so favourable an opportunity as this by my Aunt; we
are very sorry she and Cousin Tommy make so short a stay with
us, but we can't prevail on them to stay longer: my Aunt
was very little tired with the journey though it was so long: I
would be very glad to stay a while with her at Athy and
which you at Ballitore if I could get leave, but fear it will be
long before I have that pleasure; tho' there are no places my Mother
would be more willing to let me stay [insertion]at[/insertion] than with you; but
she says I must not ask to go abroad till I have done with school,
and I fear that won't be soon, as I have begun to learn French,
but as yet have made little progress in that study; besides I am
not clever at Figures which my Mother would have me perfect
in, and I have to help her to work sometimes, as she has a
great deal to do.
It

It was a great pity of the poor little French boy that was so far
from home: my Mother was very sorry when she heard he was ill,
she said he was such a fine little creature: no doubt his own Mother
will be in great grief for him.
My Brother John has been very unfortunate this year;
his arm and face are neither of them well, and he has got a new
complaint a swelling in his face, but that we hope will soon go off
tho' he was very ill with the like complaint about two years
ago. My Mother has been but indifferent since she came from
Lunster, has had a cold and inflammation in her face but now
seems to be getting the better of them: my Sister and I have also
had colds but were much confined with them, and are growing
better.
We were all glad to see Jenny Dougherty come back, but
don't know that she will stay long with us; as she talks of going
to the sea tho' she has been pretty well since she came home; she
speaks very well of Ballitore and of your civility to her while
she was there.
I was very sorry to hear thy Aunt was so poorly but
hope she is better before this.
I would be greatly pleased to see thee or thy Sister Sally
here next summer, as my Mother has some expectation of thy
Sister Peggy's coming; and might not one of you come with her?
I have few companions here of young girls, I think none but
my

my Cousin Nancy Sinton, who is very agreeable and goodnatured
to me though older than I am.
I believe it's now time for me to conclude: with dear love I remain
Thy affectionate & much obliged Cousin
Margaret Christy
Stranmore the 8th of 9th month 1774.

To
Mary Shackleton
Ballitore
Margaret Christy
Stranmore 8/9 mo. 1774
Answerd 3d of 5th mo. 1775

