
			R. S. to his Son
				Ballitore, 13th of Secondmonth 1779.
		*** I hope to be at the solemnization of your marriage, and trust that if we keep to a right preparation of heart, the Great Master will favour us with his presence. Thou sayest, and truly, that solemnity causes inward strength; but the heart must witness a preparation for  the solemnity. This preparation of heart, this cleansing our way is only effected by taking heed thereto, according to the dictates of the in-speaking word. Keep pace with this, and in all your previous transactions do nothing contrary to this, and I doubt not but you will be strengthened to go through the public part which you have still to act, in a manner suitable to the occasion. Remember the advice which Mary gave at that honourable marriage, to which both Jesus and his Disciples were called: ‘Whatever he saith unto you, do it;’ and the consequence was, that the plain, simple water-pots for purification, were made to contain most excellent wine. You are both very dear to me: I love you both as one. You are the companions of my thoughts, and subjects of my prayers. You must bear with me then, if, with parental tenderness and affection I earnestly recommend to you the path which leads to present and future happiness. It is not a path in which the world walks, for the friendship of the world is enmity with God; but it is apath of holiness and self-denial; it is a path of lowliness and purity; but it is a path in which is found substantial peace. May you walk hand in hand through life in this path, encouraging one another in every good word and work, true helpmates in prosperity and adversity; ‘looking unto Abraham your father, and unto Sarah that bare you’: i.e. calling to your frequent recollection your ancestors, male and female, from whom you are descended; men and women devoted in all their noble faculties to the cause of truth, which is the cause of genuine Christianity: Worthies, whose names are of sweet memorial, and will very probably be transmitted, with real honour, to latest posterity. ‘Mark the perfect man, and behold the upright; for the end of that manis peace.’ And it is the end which we should still keep in view. ***
							R. S. 

