Thy letter, my dear sister, & the glad tidings
it conveyed was indeed very acceptable, we longed
to hear of dear Sally's safety: I lost little time in
forwarding the news to sister Chandlee. [underline]I thought[/underline]
thou would not be able to be present at her suffering;
Betsy Shackleton grows more & more like thee
I think, I wish you had her a while in Munster,
she is abundantly more in substance than show.
Thou does not say whether Sally be likely to nurse:
Oh the sweet creature! I should delight in seeing
her suckling her baby. I well remember the interesting
visit I paid her at Q M: - I frequently thought
of writing her what Nancy Shannon told me passed
through her mind while sitting with her, but
if this finds thee still there thou can communicate
"Thy rise of Fortune did I only wed,
it,
"From it's decline determin'd to recede?
"Did I but purpose to embark with thee,
"On the smooth surface of a Summers sea?
2 1807
prosperous
gales,
"While gentle zephyrs play in prosperous
sails:
"And Fortune's favor fills the swelling
"And Fortune's favour fills the swelling
the shore,
"But would forsake the ship, & make
roar?
"When the winds whistle, & the tempest

Surely I had a few lines from thy Anne the other
day, by John Prendergast, it was written the day
Richard was married, I was glad to be once more
address'd by her, her silence to me was so very long,
I have replied, & left it at the Inn for John to
take back. Jonathan Pike is at present with us,
on a visit to his father & sisters, I intend sending
this as far as Dublin by him. We have been
in the complaining way of late here: sister Lydia
often very poorly with Bilious [insertion]&[/insertion] Rhuematick complaints,
she has now a blister on her back, sick or well she
loves thee, upon my saying how I had given her love,
Betsy says, "whether I am laughing or crying I love her,"
Margt. adds, "Namesake or not I love her," - so thou sees
we all love thee one way or other - there are only
we four in the parlour at present. James & Lydia
White look happy, tho' as yet they have not got many
boarders, Joseph Harvey paid us a most acceptable
visit lately, & left his nice son at school.
Sister

Sister M:L intends going to Dublin next week in
order to see about, & forward her printing business.
I understand Jane & D: Chandlee's business is not good,
& they dull on the occasion, - I also heard that Joseph
Harvey recommended their removing to Clonmel as a
place better for trade; but I know not how they
incline: it would be a disappointment, after their
friends kindness if it should fail of the design intended.
Anne Searl of Carlow very ill, her recovery
I believe not expected. Abby Haughton still
continues very weakly, yet we sometimes hope
will rub through. I long to see thee, it seems
long indeed since I did, is there any chance of
this gratification at Mt.melick QM, before thou
leaves this Province?
Greece-bank:
2d mo: 1807.
Affectionately farewell.
S: Shackleton.

Francis Davis
For
Enniscorthy.
Margt. Grubb
FE
23
1807
Sarah Shackleton
to Enniscorthy

