Newtown 12 of Ninth month 1827
My dear friend E.L. I do not sit down to address thee for
the purpose of what is usually termed condolence in the late
privation which, in the progress of unerring wisdom has been
allotted thee, but since hearing thereof, I have been somewhat
inclined to salute thee in this way, altho I seem to have but little
to offer - Thou must no doubt feel much stripped, and very
solitary since deprived of thy only remaining parent; for, notwithstanding
these are events, which we are frequent witnesses of as it
relates to others; yet when brought home to our own feelings the
effects can then alone be rightly comprehended. _ I believe it is
the design of Infinite wisdom that such dispensations should
contribute to the loosening of some of the many links which bind us
to this earth, and that we should be thereby induced to aspire after
an increasing interest in that state [insertion]of[/insertion] unmixed rest and peace which
is still laid up for those, who, this boundless mercy are enabled to hold out
to the end. When those whom we dearly loved, and to whom we
were closely united are withdrawn from us, it should prove as a
powerful inducement to cultivate an increased acquaintance
with [insertion]Him[/insertion] who is emphatically designated, a Friend that sticketh closer than
a brother, and respecting whom we have his own gracious assurance
- "I am with you always, even unto the end of the world"- these expressions

altho' addressed to his immediate followers, continue in undiminished
force concerning [underline]all[/underline] who are willing to accept the terms of discipleship
And it is a truly consoling consideration, that under every difficulty, and
and in the midst of every distress, even when all around wears the aspect
of discouragement and dismay, the conflicting soul may avail itself of
the unspeakable privilege of retiring to a place of safe retreat, beyond
the reach of all outward obstructions, and there experience an
increase of help and strength to move forward acceptably in
the path of Christian dedication - That this may be thy
favoured attainment, my dear friend, and that by the gentle,
yet powerfully attractive influences of Divine Love, thy spirit
may be drawn into an increased union and communion
with the source of good, and be thereby enabled to bring forth
fruits to the praise of his great name, is the desire of
I wish to be particularly remembered to thy aunts Lydia
and S. S. also to thy cousin E. S. and others of my friends
in Ballitore.-
thy aff. friend
Richd Allen

Bundle K 1.
Elizabeth Leadbeater
Ballitore
Care of
Richd. Chersy.

