If I should omit this opportunity of writing perhaps
I might be accused of unpardonable neglect therefore
as I wish to prevent my Mary's pen from being converted
into an hostile weapon or what is worse
from being totally laid aside I readily embrace it
though entirely devoid of any thing interesting to
impart which is the chief reason of my defering writing
so long for finding a Vacuum several times
after having begun a letter to thee unwilling to disappoint
appoint thee with a charte blanche- I have been
induced to put it off. I am well pleased to find
thee so attentive to domestick duties & shall hope
one day to see thee cut as great a figure therein
as thy mental abilities in the social. Thy agreeable
Friend Becky Grubb has been in town this considerable
time on a visit to Molly Jacob- we happened to

join the other day going to Meeting for about one
hundred yards; she informed me she had something
to enclose to thee which she brought from Cork &
thought she would not have time to write while here
I endeavoured to persuade her & if she has not the next
time I see her shall forward it to thee. I was sorry to
hear at Pat's return of E Widdows' indisposition hope
ere now my kind Doctress has met with relief.
Pray do not let me be entirely shut out of the
Cabinet but inform me how little affairs go on
with you tho' I confess I hardly deserve such indulgence
as I have been so tardy in writing yet blame
me not for I assure thee I have often attempted it but
in vain. Thou wilt be so obliging as to send me
a shadow of my profile if it be reduced. Dost thou
make use of the Pentagraph now or of the old

Instrument. Had you much company at the Retreat
at the Carlow Meeting? Were you favoured with Sally
Hoope's company who before had contributed to the
lustry of the fair circle? Perhaps thou would take
the trouble of writing a sentence in French now
& then in thy letters that I might see what improvement
thou makes in that language~ I intend
some time next month to engage with a French
master & shall acquaint thee if I learn any thing
apropos, I asked him some time ago about the pronunciation
of the Dipthong oi & find it had
been an emission in Boyer not to mention that
in some places it sounded oaw thou may remember
I would never give that up without proper authority.
May I hope thou wilt excuse this piece of nonsense
& not expose it as I have not entirely got rid
of my shame. I am thine most affectionately
Waterford 31/1 mo 1781
William Rayner

Mary Shackleton
Retreat
Myick
Wm.. Rayner
Waterford: 31/1 mo: 1781

