27 March, 1833
My dear Eliza
We received thy letter on second
day evening it was very welcome, I was just thinking
of thee when it came it is pleasant to hear
of thy being better and of thy being able to walk so far
but take care and dont overdo do it. I have but little
to tell thee in the way of news, we are [underline]well here[/underline]
and got Emy back she is finely, and enjoys being out
as much as ever. Frank & Lucy were here on seventh
day and were quite pleased to see her so well.
my mother is finely very busy at the two cottages [underline]I[/underline]
[underline]wish[/underline] heartily they were both set. The last account we
had from Edward was that he was better I suppose
by this he is quite well. I was in town once since
thou left this, I brought thy frock in and left it to be
altered, Mrs Hogan was ill, so I suppose she is getting
the cares of this world on her as well as others. John
& Martha dined here on first day, Frederic came
out on seventh day night he had a bad cold in his
head but is better. Frederic W was here also, he desired
his love to thee when I wrote, that is all the visitors
we had since. The Hinny's I did not hear
any thing of [deletion]f[/deletion], thou knows thy being away there

is not much inducement for them to come.
I have moved up several of the things thou desired
me the weather has been so severe that I am afraid
they may be injured, there was a heavy shower of
snow on first day morning and another last night
the wind is piercing cold, and the mountains quite
white, but for all that last week was fine and dry
but bitter cold. I have put a seat too in my garden
it is rather bleak at present there being nothing
to shade it, if it does for nothing else it will rest
one when they are tired. Little Richard is here
still he is the only visitor we have except Emy.
I was asking [insertion]brother[/insertion] Frederic would he go down to see thee
now it would be a nice opportunity to get acquainted
with Jane, thou I suppose can ask her to
come here now, so they may all have a chance.
Is it for her health she went. Richard & Elizabeth
have not paid us their visit yet, the latter &
child seem finely, and Richard also seems better.
J Stevens is with them still. Alley went the
sixth day after thou left us and Mary came
on the next third day. we were several days without
any one, except Ann. Mary is just the old thing.
How are all the people? how are they at the mill

how is Aunt Sally is she snug at Fullers Court, & Mary
Doyle how is she? I wonder Eben & Ellen did not go in
to see thee perhaps the illness of their child prevented
them. I hope thou wilt not be out of patience before
thou gets this, it often happens that there is an opportunity
to town, and one has no letter ready to send
and when there is a letter ready there is no opportunity
so it is with this. if I cannot send it any other way
I will by post. there is very little more sign of spring
than there was a month ago, Manliff says the
weather is perishing and that it is now we are
getting winter, and so it is I
[unclear][/unclear], it is the coldest weather I
felt this year. I hope thy thumb is
the last sore finger thou wilt have
What time dost thou go to bed, do not sit up late
I am sure it is not good for thee I know how late
they are at Betsy B's how dost thou sleep at
night. So thou hast got another Pat, my mother
says that she went off in such a hurry that she forgot
to get it, he would have been a nice companion
down in the chaise. poor fellow he is standing
in a corner of thy room ever since. The filly has
been sick so that I have not got a ride on her for
more than a week. every thing seems to have got

cold this dreary weather. I hope thou wilt write
soon again and that we may have a good account of
thee Is next first day the meeting or will Betsy B
stay long away with love to her and Elizth I am
thy affectionate sister Selina
I believe I put no date to this 27th of 3rd mo 1833
I hope thou wilt continue to keep 4th day
thy journal letters and send them to us as
they are filled my mother sends her dear love.
Eliza Barrington
Ballitore.
3M
MR28
33

