My dear Cousin,                                                  Ballitore: 5/7 month 1778.
			Thine of 27th came to hand, pleasing & communicative, as thine in general are. We are concerned that thy James has been poorly, hope he is by this time recruited. Thy account of Tommy Chandlee is very agreeable, hope it will please Divine Providence to spare him, & sanctify this dispensation to him. We want sanctified spirits amongst us: we have worldly-wise people, we have some tolerably skilled in handling the outward law, & we have half-baked cakes  but spirits tried as gold is tried, refined, baptized seven times & so purified we want in the house. Several friends are returned from the yearly meeting of London. I think the yearly Epistle is a good one. I had a good deal of honest, innocent Joseph Garratt since his return, on his way home. I understand by him it was a favoured season. More than ordinary convincement in various places, particularly about Sheffield, I think about 30, & one young woman thereabouts, who is in possession of Two thousand pounds a year. But my memory is not good at names & numbers. Accounts (I hear) were returned at that Meeting of the completion of the visit appointed two years before. I understand our friend Thomas Corbyn gave account of the visit paid to Scotland & Ireland, said a good deal of a hopeful prospect in the former nation; but painted us in very dark & dismal shades - things have generally two sides, a light & a dark: but by the information given me, Thomas seems to have forgot to shew the light side of us at all. So much for their visit to us, & their support of us. Alas! for poor Ireland, that even the thistles in Scotland should be preferred to our Plantation. Yet barren as our soil may be, it seems that the good husbandman is willing to cultivate it. Isaac Gray & Thomas Carrington (as thou heard) are expected immediately, & Samuel Spavold to follow. Robert Grubb went (I suppose) with William. Tuke to the Quarterly Meeting at York. Mary Robinson & Hannah Hadwen were lately in our parts, in brave health & spirits, though the former had lost her knapsack on her march in the County Wicklow, & so travelled literally without scrip - I told her she was like Pilgrim in his progress, that disburdened himself as he proceeded in his Journeythe good woman smiled at the comparison. I believe they are this day at Edenderry particular Meeting - they were at their monthly meeting there - Cousin Sam Carleton was with them there, brought word that our Relations at Violet-bank were well. Robert Ackinsons wife but poorly -. Lydia Miller & her sister do not (I hear) get much business there, & talk of going to live in Dublin. I know not whether I mentioned to thee (but tis like thou heard) of two of our friends in America dying of the Camp-fever in the place of their exile (John Hunt & Thomas Gilpin); that the former had previously suffered the amputation of his leg. I am told that the survivors obtained liberty to return home, on the application of some of their wives to the Congress. Also that a Vessel carrying provisions to our friends in Philadelphia was spoke with within 4 days sail of that place - that fresh provision there is scarce & dear. Joseph Garratt told us that dear honest Thomas Gawthrop (with whom he spent some time at his own house) has been deeply dipped into sympathy with Friends there, so that in consideration of their distress & famine, he could not eaty a pleasant meal himself - that one of his naughty daughters (the unmarried one) has been greatly reformed, takes a true & tender care of her father, & had saved 50 in his absence - that on his coming home, he immediately inquired into her savings or earnings for him, & finding that she had got together that sum & had put it out to interest, that he immediately took it up & applied it to the relief of his suffering Brethren in America, though perhaps it was the bulk of his living. I am pleased that ye are not likely to lose much by those pillars of Salt, the Wakefields. People that will be high & great like monuments are often made & left monuments with a witness. Like the Israelites when they lusted for meat, He gave them their request, but sent leanness into their soul. I am also pleased to hear that our John gives pleasure to his friends. I think I have observed a hurt accrue to young boys by their Friends taking too much notice of them; but as John seems to have a dread upon him lest he should be thought conceited, I hope being ^thus^ forewarned by the monitor in his own breast, he will be forearmed. If it pleases kind Providence to spare him, I hope, trust & believe he will be an useful member of Civil & Religious Society. And indeed thou good prospect there is of thy whole flock manifests under whose gracious care & protection they have mercifully been, even his whose Covenants & promises are sure. May it above all things be our solicitude to cultivate an interest with him who has all power in his hand, & controls human events at his pleasure: in the first place taking diligent heed to ourselves, & then as we feel our minds enlarged & influenced, not only temporally, but spiritually ready to distribute, willing to communicate, which is the way to lay up in store a good foundation against the time to come: & to this we are also further encouraged by this expression, To do good & to communicate forget not; for with such sacrifices God is well pleased. How idly different are the consequences annexed to the [word crossed out] condition of If ye be willing & obedient, and that of, But if ye refuse & rebel! In our little communications of this sort as Truth may open our minds, let us attend to the Apostle's Remark & Exhortation, He which soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly: & he which soweth bountifully, shall reap also bountifully: and, let us give, not grudgingly, or of necessity: for God loveth a cheerful giver.
As to our health - My wife is middling & gets about, was at Carlow with us - went & returned same day. I am (through mercy) pretty well - but sister Carleton very poorly - thinks herself no way benefited by Dr. Blair who has visited her several times & varied his medicines - We fear she rather loses ground, & are much alarmed about her - her appetite next to none, though we have her out almost daily in the chair. Our Molly too has been very poorly of late, her appetite bad, exceedingly thin, & her spirits low - We are fearful of a decay...have consulted Dr. Blair about her - we have her frequently to ride out, & are not without hopes that it will please our great Benefactor to continue our dear child to us. The rest are finely - & we heard lately from Peggy who with her children were pretty well - I am in Cork about business. Molly Dudley has been very poorly again. Jane Watson of Rathrush was at Carlow, had been indisposed, but was better & intended the latter end of this week to our Quarterly Meeting at Moat. I expect the English women-friends will also be there, & its like proceed from those parts to yours. As such news spreads far & fast, probably thou will have heard of poor Mary Whitton (daughter of Daniel Whitton) of Carlow having fallen in the dirt. She had been well thought of, an object of compassion & of the tender care of her friends, as she was thought to be often out of her reason: a married man lodged in the same house with her, who used to hold her in her fits of insanity: the mans wife died the other day & in about three weeks after this man & Mary Whitton declared themselves married together (I suppose) for some time. Its likely they had begun full early. We have also had to record Sam Watson Son of Samuel Watson of Ballydarton a person not of our Religious community, as he has disavowed our principles, left our religious assemblies & joined himself to the congregations of those who hold a form of Godliness yet deny the power. We made appointment to treat with him, & know his reasons for joining in the publick worship by law established: but he seemed not to be furnished with any ostensible reason: his real motive I believe is Libertinism, & the expectation of getting a wife with a fortune of another society. By accounts he is of a most penurious cast, & the people whom he has joined think very little of their acquisition. I am told that Willy Butler seemed provoked at his conduct in this respect, told him that he changed his Religion for a wife, or some interested view, & that he neither knew the principle of the Profession which he had forsaken, nor of that which he adopted in its room. Robert Lecky was at Carlow, he had been complaining, but better again, in an agreeable mediocrity of spirits. Richard Thompsons wife was very indifferent. Thou desired me to send thee copies of some papers. I really cannot be positive what they are: but have some notion they were those inclosed. If thou wants any others, let me know. Thy Mother & Abby were here a week ago, finely. My Sally has been writing to T: Chandlee, my son is now writing at him: so this packet will be pretty well stuffed with one thing or other. Remember us all with affectionate Respect to thy Father: if ye have got full satisfaction of Lelands history, ye may send it for me to the care of Robert Jackson in Dublin - but take your time. Give our dear love to the children I believe my Sally writes to thy Peggy. My dear love to thy brother James when thou sees him. All our good wishes attend John: we would be glad to see him safe & sound returned. My sister & cousin Sam join in this salutation to you.
P.S I hear that David			I am, my dear Debby,		thy truly affectionate kinsman
Barclay is to be over with you						       	Richard Shackleton
