London 21st of 2d month 1786
I could no longer remain without acknowledging
to my dear friend the receipt of thy obliging favour;
which thou wast so kind as to send I am ashamed
to say by thy Sister, & 'tho I have been so long
silent I have not been forgetful of the favour I
enjoy in having so valuable a Correspondent.
in thy last thou mentioned that you had some
expectation of my Fathers accompanying Thomas
Ross to Ireland, but I believe he had not any
thoughts of that kind. I suppose you may
have heard of the Decease of that worthy friend
who died at York the 13th instant at Linley Murray
he has been very ill some time at said place:
John Pemberton was with him about two weeks before
his departure, and gave my Father the first
information of the event, what affecting news will
it be to his dear Wife and Friends in America as his
return to them must have been very desirable.
W Matthews has been in London some time and
had an evening meeting at Westminster last first
day, which is the only one we have had in the City
this Winter. We had a very agreable Journey
last Summer into Cornwall, and attended the Circular
Meeting held at [unclear]Truro[/unclear] where was a many friends
and a great number of other people; it lasted three
days. That Country afforded a very pleasing variety
to my Brother & me being so very different to what
we had been used to, it is very Mountanious and in
M:B: Elliot
London: 21/2 mo:
Ansd - 6/4 -

some places exceeding pleasant, tho near the mines
very barren, we went to see one which is esteemed
the best tin mine in the Country, to see the preparation
of the tin and the fire engine which when the
springs are high is said to draw 25 hodgheads of
water out of the mine in a minute, is very curious
we were from home seven or eight weeks.
By a letter from thy worthy Father to WM
which he received lately, we understood your family
were favoured with health which blessing we are at
present partakers of. I suppose thy Father was
acquainted with that ancient friend Glaude Gay
who has been mostly confined to the house for two
years, but has frequently attended Meetings (as he
lived in a room adjoining to the meeting house) till
about two weeks ago, from which time I believe he
mostly kept his bed, he departed this Life last first
day & is to be intered on fifth day. Friend Corbyn
is very poorly as she usually is in winter time
and has been not been at meeting for above three months
her Daughter Sally is much confined with attending
on her. Its likely thou mayst have heard
that John Chorley has taken a house at Tottenham
it is very near ours so that we please ourselves with
the thoughts of having agreable Neighbours in them
when we are there. My Parents and Brother
desire their love to your family in which joins
Thy affectionate Friend
When inclination and
Marciabella Eliot
leisure unite, I hope to be
favoured with a few lines from thee.

