

		Richard Shackleton to Thomas Carleton
						Ballitore, 13th of Secondmonth, 1767.
	Dear Cousin T. C.
		I seem, doubtless, unmannerly or negligent, in never making any reply, in writing, to thy kind and friendly invitation to thy marriage, nor at all writing to thee on that subject. Be assured my silence has not been caused by inattention, nor want of affection: but a multitude of affairs, of various kinds, and want of a fit disposition of mind, nor want of inclination, prevented. I now greet thee and thy spouse with my wife’s and my dear love, adn sincerely wish you health and happiness, and the renewed evidence of a Divine blessing upon your union. You are now joined together, I hope, by the ordering hand of Providence. You are advanced a step higher, into a more conspicuous station in life and business. The Author of every good and perfect gift has given thee, my dear Thomas, and I believe to both of you, a good share of natural capacity, and the means, through frugality & industry, with his blessing, of procuring a comfortable subsistence. He has placed you in a great and populous city, where you profess his holy & saving truth, among a large number of others of the same profession, who do not honour it as they ought in their lives and conversation. Now, my dear Cousins, my mind is a little uncommonly engaged for your temporal and eternal prosperity, and I think I see the path, and the only one which leads infallibly to it. It is by humbly, diligently, steadily & faithfully seeking to the Almighty Benefactor, for his preservation and blessing to be over and about you, and all that is under your hand. Strive not either to be or to appear great; nor stretch your wings beyond the circumference of the next, which, in the set ordering of all-wise Providence, is allotted for you. Rather live under, and appear under, your ability, than over: you will experience safety and quietness in it. The contrary is a temptation and a snare, and an inlet to many dangers of various kinds; and often with new beginners, lays the foundation of difficulties, straitness, adn embarrassments, which they are sometimes never disincumbered of, till they are discincumbered of mortality. Let us take a little view, my dear friend, of the persons and families which have been up and down, during our short time of observation; let us contemplate them, not with an evil nor a pitiless eye, but with an eye to th ways of that all-ruling Power, which resisteth the proud, yet giveth his grace additionally and manifold to the humble. Let us centre down, and have our dwelling low, in a conscious sense of our unworthiness, and insufficiency to direct our steps and prospects, either as to the things of this or a better life; without his blessed protection & mediation. Be truly humble, my dear Thomas; be frequent, and, as much as possible, constant in feeling after a capacity to breathe in secret after an acquaintance and communion with the Author of all goodness. Be exemplary in your conduct and conversation, and exterior appearance and deportment,
as becomes the disciples, followers, and professors of the religion established by Him who was meek and low in heart, and whose garment was without seam. So will you, in proportion to the purity of your intentions and the cleanness of your hands in his sight, gain the favour and approbation of Him who knows the heart, and hath all power in his hand to bless or blast at his pleasure.
	I am concerned and desirous, my very dear friend, that they determined conduct may be such, now in the setting off of life, as that the goodwill and approbation of Heaven may be to and upon it: if thou happily attain this, it must certainly be by being a pattern of humility, steadiness, and plainness, among thy numerous acquaintance in that city. This may occasion some trials, in which it will often be proved whether thy attachment to the testimony of truth, or to the spirit of the world is most prevalent. According to the free-will choice which thou wilt be enabled to make, wilt thy ability to proceed aright be strengthened or weakened, and finally the one side or the other get the victory. The day of small things, and of little requirings of duty, proportioned to the state of children, is by no means to be despised. The cross to our own depraved wills is often to be borne, and many old friendships,
connexions, habits, and propensities, of a hurtful or unprofitable nature, will be dissolved or decay [sic]: in the room of which, new desires and affections, new intimacies and society will gradually be formed. But in all that he throws down, as well as in all that he builds up, the Lord Almighty, as we rely upon him, and are faithful to his discoveries, will be found to do every thing right, and for our good, every manner of way.
	I might perhaps write more on this subject, but I should rather be under than over. I most heartily commend thee and thy dear wife to the grace and good spirit, guide and comforter in your own hearts, which is of itself entirely sufficient to lead you safely through this dangerous and troublesome world, to everlasting happiness: and which I hope will be sealed in your minds to the rectitude of this little counsel, and to the sincere love and unfeigned desires for your welfare, in which it is simply given. Indeed, it is not very usual with me to feel such a flow of earnest and solicitous wishes for the happy setting forward of any young couple of my acquaintance in life. May the right love and unity increase amongst us.


