Dublin Jany 18th 1822 -
Dear Madam.
I have just arrived in Dublin
from London, where I have been 12 months
and unexpectedly successful in surmounting the
difficulties to which all young literary adventurers
are exposed during their first struggles to arise
from the gloom of obscurity - on my entry
into London I had not a single friend to
rely on - and believe in[deletion]y[/deletion] my mind incessantly
recurd to a passage in one of your letters, which
I have been some time since favour'd with
"though my prospects might be dull for awhile,
through a confidence in Providence they would
brighten" Such was my state of mind, when
the interception of a casual friend enabled me
to give publicity to my Poem, "The Hours of
Contentment" which, if it has not pleased for
practical excellence, has given much pleasure
for its moral tendency: The first edition is
entirely sold. I was preparing it for a second
when Mr [unclear]Turnerelli[/unclear]: The Sculptor, requested

of me to come with him to the Country.
My introduction to him in London was of
the first importance [deletion]to me[/deletion], as he recommended
me to most the Litterati of London - his friends
there are highly respectable and extensive to
whom he has introduced me - I have the second
Edition of my Poem in the Press and shall
send you a copy very shortly. please to let
me know where in Dublin may I have it
that it may be sent carefully to you.
I should feel very much obliged if you would
recommend me to a few of your friends here,
who you consider might serve me in the
Publication of my Poem, as I remain here
but a short time and must make every
exertion to procure subscribers, If you know
the Lefanse Family of Leeson St. they could
serve me. I met some of them at Lady
Morgan's, and also at Turnerelli's Studio
but I would feel more gratified in a
recommendation from yourself.
I have other works in preparation, which
I intend to publish on my return to London.
Lady Morgan, Maturin, Shiel &c have promised

me their Interest with the English Publisher
so that my prospects in life are every day
brightening. If you visit Dublin I should
feel highly honored by visiting me.
You will have the goodness to mention
me with much respect and affectionate
enquiries to my Uncle and his Family
perhaps I may visit Ballitore before I
depart of London. Remember me very
Cordially to the Misses Doyles. With many
sincere wishes for the prosperity of your
family - I remain
Dear Madam
with grateful recollections
your faithful servant & admirer
Hugh Clarke
13 Grafton St.

[unclear]secon[/unclear]
who
Mrs. Leadbeater
Ballitore
ansd. 22

