North Strand No36
September 7th 1813
Dear Cousin
I did not intend writing until I could
report some favourable issue from the Letters I was so
kindly favoured with; but meeting such an opportunity
of conveyance was unwilling to let it
slip. I find by the report of Mrs Maxwell & Devereux
that you continue to follow the example of the
good Samaritan in contributing to the comfort
of the distressed - you will I hope receive your
reward. I have delivered all the Letters I was
charged with - I called 3 or 4 times in quest of
Sally to no effect chance at last effected a
meeting & she led the way to Edward Allens
where we were both bound - she endeavours to
keep up her spirits I hope to see her on her
return from the North. Betty Johnson received me

in a very friendly manner & seemed inclined to ease
me of the maintenance of one of my daughters to
assist her & her daughter in law in domestic affairs
& sit with them at work occasionally. Thos is from home
She wishes to consult him before she decides & I wish
to have your opinion as to the eligibility on our
side of complying with such a proposal. We are
desirous of placing them all where they may have
an opportunity of learning something useful
but as we are circumstanced (they an I) suppose
we cannot spare time to look out for the
best bidder but must through necessity deal
with the first - for them I do not like it but
for myself I am inclined. This morning I
am to wait on a Mr Labertouche of Abbey Street
at the recommendation of Alex Maguire to when
I was introduced by Js White: it shall not be my
fault If I do not engage in his service. I have
not yet had the advantage of meeting Mr Lefanu

I shall persevere until I obtain an interview as I
have a strong desire to cultivate such an acquaintance.
Mr Cumming promises to do what may
be in his power - I am apprehensive I shall
not meet encouragement to resort to the press
for the Book keeping I have another matter on
the anvil - Tables of Calculation which shall be
at the mercy of the Bankers. I am determined
to spare no exertion to struggle for independence
I had the pleasure of meeting your Lydia at
Parliament Street & recommenced an acquaintance
she had grown beyond my knowledge & shewed herself
very amiable in her demeanor.
Adieu dear Cousin I must haste to
my appointment as I am not yet master
of distances
Yours affectionately
William Rayner

KILKENNY
Mrs Leadbeater
5
Ballitore
Ansd. 16th

