Worthy, and well Esteamed friend; Munga Bula.. I haveing this
opertunity to send thee a few lines, take the freedom to write to thee
to let thee know how I have faired, Since thou visited us at Rhoad Island
which I hope wil not be unpleasant to thee. I conclude thou hast but
little knowledg of me I shall let thee know that I am the man, that was
Exceedingly Shaken in a meeting at Newport on Rhoad Island; when thou with
Several other friends [insertion]from Europe[/insertion] was their; thou was at my house also: as thou past
over the ferrey at the point, that leads to Kingston meeting. I have
often thought of thee and thy advice to me then which was to keep little
and low, which I have found since to be the safest a bideing plase.
thou was Concernd in our meeting at Newport to Spake to Some that was
Prodigals who spent their portion after an Extravigant manner of whom
I was one: for while thou was a Spakeing, I had it Seald on my Spirit
that I was the man. Thou Said also: those Prodigals should Return home
to their fathers house where there is bread annuf and to spare for God
would send a famine not of outward bread but a famine of the word. and the
word of the Lord should be precious in those Days to those poor hungry souls
who should be ready to famish for want of the bread of life. Dear friend
Sum of us, have known Sumthing of this State. I now let thee know that
after I appeard in the afore Said meeting as a publick gaseing Stock
to the people. I Came a way home weeping through [deletion]charge[/deletion] the street
as I went a long, and was ashamed to look any body in the face and
when I came home I was ashamed to be seen by any body for sume Days
although I knew Right well, that I had bin in the way of my Duty
in my appearances; and was made pertaker of the Consolateing love
of God, at that time And many other Times; yet I was ashamed
of my apearance I Could not indure to be a spectacle to the world.
Although I went with thee to Kingston meeting I Returnd home
heavily I could not indure to be accounted a fool. I Could not indure
the Cross and Dispise the Shame. after this I kept prety close to meeting
when health and opertunity permited near or about a year and in
all this Time when any friend would ask me how I Did I could answer
Prety weel as to bodily health But I could not Say I was well in mind,
for my Countinance berayed me that I was not well in mind. for as I was
ashamed to Deny my Self and take up a Cross Dayly to my own will
and follow the Lord Jesus in the way of his Requireings; It was Just
with the almighty, to with Draw his holy Spirit, and withhold the
world of Life, from me. And then I was made sensable that all outward
Profermences without the Inward Life and power was but as hursks:
without the Cernal. which Could not Sadisfy my poor hungry and thursty
Soul which was Ready to famish for want of that inward Cumfort and
Consolateing Love which in time past I had been made pertake[deletion]s[/deletion] of.
And thus I Continued near a year in a poore Barren State. And after
this the Lord was so gracious as to visit me againe and then there was
a willingness wrought in me to follow the Lord in part of his Requireings:
that is in Soberness and plainness in Speech and aperrel and Every
thing, that I knew was agreable to his will. Except that of Standing
as a publick Gazeing Stock to be Exposed to Every persons Censor
this I Could not yet Indure.

And thus I Continued, until I was so terrifyd, Night and Day both
Sleaping and wakeing knowing that my Eternal hapiness lay at stake
So that I Dare not Sit any Longer Silent. And So I was made willing to
appear two or three times, in the Space of two or three months.
But the Cross was too heavy for me to bare I counl not in Dure it. And
then I was left I thought, somthing in poor Souls State. the spirit
of the Lord Departed from me that is his favourable presence.
Because I was not obediant. I was for spareing the best things a alive.
And now I was left in a far wors, State then before. [deletion]Then[/deletion][insertion]Now[/insertion] I seemed
to be in Pharaoh, State, that of hardness of heart: and in groce
Darkness too. All that tenders the heart was with holden from me
for the space of nine months or their a bouts. In grate part of this time
I was grevously afflicted, not only in mind, But in body Too. when night
Came then I wished for-morning, and when morning Came then I Longed
for Evening. and thus I have known the Judgments of the Lord to be
Powered forth on me because of Sin and Disobediance. and while I was
Under this horror, and terrefied thus, I was made to say with Pharaoh
that I would let all goe so that I may be free from [underline]this Judgment[/underline]
also: and when I was in this frame of mind; that there was a willingness
Rought to me. I Dreamed that I see my self Dead, and buried in a
low place where Every Tide flowed over my body. I thought also: that
I was nailed Down, least the tide should flote me out and carry me
a bove the water, and while I was a Dreaming I a woke in a Sweet
fraime of mind. and had a Clear Sight of my State. Then I See Clearly
that Except I knew a Death to the old man, the first nature: I Should
never know the love of God to over overwhelme me. But If I was faithful
to the Death of the Cross: I should know the love of God to overwhelme me
as the Tide Doth the low land by the See Shore. And the next
meeting that I was at after this, I had a Sweet Time, I felt the
heart Tendering Power of the love of God, to Soften my heart, like
unto wax before the Sun. And when I felt the Constraining Power in
the love of God, to Spake unto the people. I was made to say If this Cup
may not pass a way thy will be done. O Lord thy will be done.
O the Joye and Sweetness that my Soul was made pertaker of, my Tongue
and pen is not able to set [insertion]forth[/insertion] the Praise of so gracious and mercyfull God.
who waited Long to be Gracious to me who am not worthy of the Least of
his favours. but it is of his meer mercy and good will that I have known
his favours to be Extended unto me to whome be all praise Majesty might
and Dominion both now and for Ever saith my soul: amen.
How Dear friend I have given thee a prety large account: of the mercy,
and Dealing of the Lord with me, Since I Seen [insertion]the[/insertion] which I hope will be axceptab[insertion]le[/insertion]
to thee. I being Sensible, that thou was an Instrument (in the hand of the
Lord,) in strongly Confirming me through the Gospel take the more freedom
to write to thee after this manner. Knowing as the apostle Paul observg
although we have ten thousand instructors in Christ yet we have wee
not many fathers. and Now dear friend I Think I may Justly Call
thee a father in Israel Seeing thou hast begotten me to a lively
hope in Jesus Christ, Through the Gospel, for which mercy and
favour I Desire that thou with me and I with thee. May -

May give God, the Praise for his gift and grace bestowed
on his poor Cretures; who over all is worthy [unclear][/unclear] all praise both
Now and for Ever. Now Dear Friend I Salute thee with a salutation
of the same Love which I felt to flow from thee. when thou
was with us in this Place. and Desire thy prayers for my prosperity
and groath in the Truth, who am but a [unclear]babe[/unclear] in Christ.
Christopher Townsend
Newport Rhoad Island
the 30:sm 1738
P.S If thou should see our Esteemed friend Joseph Gill
Be pleasd to let him know that my Dear love is to him
John Proud Desires his Love may be Remembred to thee
and Joseph Gill Likewie. I should Rejoice to hear from
thee, by frind John Leach a young man (of this Town) of an orderly
Life and Conversation by whome I send these lines.

Christopher Townsend
Rhode Island
30th of 1 mo 1738
To
Mungo Bewley

