My dear aunt
grown so scarce, that I think it is a pity to miss writing
to thee by Governess as I expect thou wilt be in Dublin.
To our very great satisfaction Governess returned
to us last 1st day, after an absence of two weeks; she
left Mary Penrose behind, it seems to me as if Mary
was only gone on a visit some where; I can hardly believe
she has left us entirely: I know it will please thee to
hear that she intends going to Ballidore when she
comes here again. I never knew what her reason was
for disliking to go there, as she would not tell me; whatever
it was I trust it is conquered and that she will
ever it was I trust it is conquered and that she will
enjoy being amongst you very much. I hope I may
be at home whenever she goes - I have a notion that
it was because us young folk are rather too prone
Mt melick 4th. mo: 21st. 1808
Opportunities to Ballitore are now

to remark and she did not like to submit herself to
the ordeal of criticism, what a pity our girls should be
so dreaded! I wish we were more circumspect.
I have just met with a disappointment
Mary Dickinson was to come for the Manlys to bring
them home for a while, and now I hear she is
not come yet they are going - I must be satisfied
tho' I wished to see her.
Mary Greer has just got a letter from
home which says it is not known whether thy
favourite Joseph Jacob will succeed or not; James
Garratt asked me a few days ago of I knew how he
was getting on with his suit. Mary Garratt went
to Ballitore yesterday morning I suppose she is
there still, How is Richard Pike?
I feel as tho' I was encompassed by a
mist, and am very stupid, do excuse me if I do
not write agreeably - If George Shackleton be in
Dublin give my love to him, see I am not ashamed

to send my love to a young man.
If thou should see Jane Stephens, I wish
thou would ask her to write to me; my dear love is to her.
I have not heard from home this long
while, I trust [deletion]that[/deletion] Lydia White is better or I
would hear; was the ointment of any use?
Give my love to my father and any one else
from Ballitore that is in town particularly Mary
Anne Doyle, if either be there.
And now my dear aunt I must say [unclear][/unclear]well
but be assured that thou art loved by thy afft. niece
If my aunt Grubb be at the meeting
present my dear love to her
I suppose I may not hope to hear from thee from [underline]Town[/underline]
Elizabeth Leadbeater

Elizabeth Leadbeater
mt. mellick; 21/4 mo: 1808.
Answered 11/5 mo:
Sarah Shackleton
Dublin

