Glendruid 8th mo 12th 1833
 My dear Eliza
I think thou & Lucy in your exile will
be glad to hear from home, though it may be only a
line or so, and as tomorrow is monthly meeting &
 there will be an opportunity to town I think it a
pity not to have a line ready. Sally M read me
the letter she got from thee on seventh day, Frank
I suppose told thee that he had seen me & sent a
verbal message that we were all well as I had not
time to do more. We are finely here. Manliff complains
a little of his knee. I think he must have
hurt it. Emy is well if she would only be a little
quieter at night. I have nothing in the way of
news for thee. we are just jogging on here in the
old style. the gooseberries have made their exit
between birds, wasps, & "two legged animals without
feathers", they paid us a very short visit this summer
we have not got a pic-nic party since and the
summer is flying over. my mother and I attended
the book meeting there were not many there, I
was agreeably surprised to meet Hannah Harvey
there she had come from Wicklow the day before
and went back the next day. Thomas Harvey
of Youghal was there he is brother of Mary Pims, he
is in great grief having lost his daughter Rebecca
a fine young woman. Thou might have heard
poor Sally Wright speak of her she was a great favorite

of hers at school. the bachelors were as [underline]polite[/underline]
as [underline]usual[/underline]. I suppose you were all at Ballitore
on first day, that is yesterday. Frank said you intended
going. I thought Dublin was very lonesome the day
I was in town. I don't care to go there now, we thought
it was bad enough to lose Mary street but I am
sure it is much worse to lose Werburgh street. I
wish with all my heart Dunlavin was not so
far away. it seems a great job to get down to it. I
suppose the house part is nearly regulated by
this and that you will have some time to [deletion][/deletion]
sort yourselves. I am very glad thou went down
 with Lucy it would have been a dismal thing to
have gone alone. have you had any visitors from
Ballitore surely Betsy B who does not think
a hundred miles too far to pay a visit ought to
have paid you one ere this when the distance
is so short, as [unclear][/unclear]. Jane Stephens was speaking
of going to see you. Patty is with us still and is
great company for us. We were alone yesterday
except in the evening, when I & Sarah and five
of the big children came to tea Margot & Johnny
rode they were a cosey little couple. there is no
use in talking but the children are very bold. Tommy
Murray is gone to John & they have got a new
man to wait on table. we are to drink tea
at Richards this evening. Frederic has got his holidays
for this week so we have the pleasure of

his company. Manliff has begun to reap today
I hope he may get it up while the weather is
fine. Did thou know that the Savages were lodging
out at Bray not where the were before but in a cottage
higher up near the grand entrance to Putlands demesne
the Robinsons are also out there. It has
been delightful weather ever since thou left this I
suppose you have had as fine though perhaps but
little time to enjoy it, it is pleasant [deletion][/deletion] to have
it fine even when one cannot go out. [deletion][/deletion]
the sunshine helps to cheer me. my Mother is
consoling herself that other peoples grand children are
as crass and bold as her own, Susannah Todhunter
was telling her that her daughter Susan's
children were very hard to manage
particularly at night when they wearied
the life out of the servants with
crying & not sleeping so tell Lucy there is comfort
for her & is it not a comfort or rather does it not
lessen our cares and frets to think others are as
bad if not worse than ourselves. I am just
after returning from Richard's, and now let me
tell thee that I do not think thou deserves
that I should write at all. I fully expected
to have a letter tonight but have been disappointed,
I did not yet hear from thee, if I do not
get one soon why I will not write any more
that's all. my Mother says the she has no message
save her love & that brother Fred is talking

of going down some day this week I do not know
whether it is a secret or not as he said nothing
to me about it. So you were at Ballitore yesterday
Elizth had a note to night mentioning it & that you
dined at H Allen's. so thou sees how news about
great people spreads. Sally B arrived here this evening
from Kingstown where she has been with
Ann Allen I believe she will spend a day or two
here it is time to go to bed so I will say farewell
with dear love to Lucy & thyself I am thy
affect sister Selina
Eliza Barrington
Dunlavin

