On the Death of
Jonathan Haughton.
Thou humble grave, mark'd with no pompous stone,
Emblem of him reposing in thy breast
Whose modest virtues sought no lofty sphere,
But with mild radiance cheer'd the lowly shade.
Not the proud boast of sculptured monument
Thy turf could honour like the filial tear,
And oft the holy dews of Friendship sweet
In silence on this favour'd spot shall fall
O [deletion]Gentlest,[/deletion] [insertion]gentlest,[/insertion] sweetest, social shade look down,
Pity thy mourning orphans who remain
To struggle through this thorny wilderness,
Without a parent's aid -- And yet for thee
This thorny wild had flowers; though sorrow pour'd
Her cup of suffering on thy patient head,
The hand of heaven dispensed the healing balm,
And placid meekness clothed thy equal mind.

Blest in the love of all: & still more blest
In loving all - Benevolence to thee
Unlock'd her stores, by sordid eyes unseen.
Thy hospitable hearth with cheerful light
On the pleased circle of thy friends around
Beam'd, like thy cordial smile -- Thou wert the friend
The secret friend of drooping indigence
And while thy hand unboasting dealt relief
Thy liberal spirit sigh'd to succour more.
Thou tenderest Father, in thy happy home
Thou found thy fond, paternal cares repaid
By children duteous, as their sire was kind --
Ye duteous children! Memory now recalls
That hour of dread when o'er the dying couch
Ye hung: & while a Father's spirit fled,
The sacred sound of heavenly minstrelsy
Rang in your ears, & for a moment hush'd
The sob of anguish; for a while forbade
The deep inflicted wound of grief to bleed.

See thy fond * sister, while her vital lamp
Exhausted faintly burns, attempt in vain
To succour thee; and with this final act
Closing her blameless life - her spirit flies
With thine to center in eternal peace.
And shall thou slide from our deserted band
In silence, & forgot? -- No much loved friend!
Our hearts shall swell thy living monument,
And there thy virtues shall engraved remain.
MS
*Elizabeth Haughton, his wife's sister and his
brother's widow.

