Mountmelick 22nd of 9th mo: 1806
My dear Aunt
It is now I think almost time
to acknowledge the receipt of thy very acceptable
letter which I should have answered by
Rachel Maria Jackson; I really do not know what
excuse to make as I might have written several
times only I did not find myself in a humour
for writing and I remember in one of thy former
letters thou said thou would rather not
get a letter than get one constrained so I thought
I would put it off and so I did 'till I fear thou
art offended and attributes my silence to forgetfulness
but be assured my dear Aunt of the
contrary for I very often indeed think of thee,
does thou think I could be so ungrateful as to
forget thee? oh no I am sure I love thee as well as
ever and hope I ever shall.
at the meeting several friends have gone from
hence to it so I will expect several letters from
thee (if thou please) Betsy and perhaps Jane
Stephens tho' she seems to have cast me off from
her correspondence if I can I will write a few
lines to her on this sheet.
I expect thou will see Governess

I had a letter from my Mother last
night which informed me of the accident which
Betsy met with for which I am very sorry and
hope she and Jane are better now; I suppose thou
has heard what an escape Lydia White had,
she was not much hurt I believe but was
frightened a good deal, thou may guess James
was not very easy.
I am rather in a hurry so hope
thou will excuse this writing and the shortness
of this I do not find much to say but
must try for a little more.
You will all be very snug I think
now you have got Agnes amongst you my Mother
will miss her seldom as she sees her I am sorry
I am not to see here.
Is Fanny North grieving much
for William? I should suppose she would after
all I heard about them; is little Fanny there
still and does she teize Betsy as much as ever.
I am afraid Governess will not be
pleased with this writing for I do not seem as
if I could write well at all.
Please give my dear love to
Betsy Agnes and George and accept a large
share thy self from thy very affectionate niece
E Leadbeater

Say how is George? and is Richard Grubb
likely to gain his wish? Had Eliza North a Boy

Elizabeth Leadbeater
Mt. Mellich: 22/9 mo: 1806
Answered 29th
Sarah Shackleton
Aby
Dunleary
Shannon
Stimulative

