Glendruid 22nd of 8th mo
1833
My dear Eliza
Though I have but little to
tell thee, I think it a pity to let
R & D go without a line they can
tell how we all are & what we have
been doing. my Mother is writing
also & I suppose will say every
thing worthy of remark, this is
very disagreeable windy weather I
am sick of it, & Manliff is quite
down about its shedding so much
of the corn there is nothing new
has happened here since I wrote
we dined on third day at Richards
he & Arthur have demolished a great
number of the trees & caused to die
in the prime of life to day that
is fifth day R & E dined with us,
I was busy weeding my garden
this morning when I heard voices

and on looking up discovered Sally
Savage Senior & junior & Marmion
who came [deletion]to[/deletion] on chance to spend the
day with us, so there was an addition
of three to our dinner table, I
very luckily after breakfast had
made a dumpling, which I assure
thee did not go astray at dinner,
Sally & I were amusing ourselves
at the boat when who should
I see riding down the road on a
nice little poney but Mr Knightley,
well thinks I to myself this
is a gala day. so he dined & drank
tea with us and we had a very unexpected
day of company tho not the
less pleasant on that account. the
Savages want us to go to them early
on second day and go up little
Sugar Loaf, my Mother has consented
to do so if the day be favorable.
this time tomorrow night I suppose
you will all be settled very cosily
at Dunlavin talking & chatting
& telling each other all the little
things that have happened since
you left this. I hope they may
have [insertion]a[/insertion] fine day tomorrow & the
wind will have fallen, it is very
disagreeable travelling in windy
weather. I have been twice in Dublin
since Lucy left it, and felt very
lonesome not to have her in
Werburgh street, so much so
that I will not go again in
haste, it seems a cold hearted
place now, and I could have
cryed leaving it, mind I am
not alluding to those that are in
Werburgh street now but to Dublin,
my Mother said she felt the same
way & came home in bad spirits
the day she went in, so thou may
tell Frank & Lucy how much
we miss them, I think worse
of there going now than I did at
first, the talk and bustle did not

give us time to think, & now when that is over
and they are really gone we feel it. well I hope
it may be all for the best give my dear love to them
 both & tell Lucy to try and grow fat now that she
has got into the fresh air, and is not to fret any
more Frank too might add a little to his weight.
I did not tell thee that thy other french pink
blew & that it is a nice one a very bright scarlet
I believe it would be called a carnation - I [deletion]will[/deletion]
send thee down one or two of them that thou may
judge for thyself - I have put out some slips of it
and I believe it would be best to cut off all the flowering
stalks as the plant seems rather delicate

Fennel says that is the only thing to preserve it
We are all well here, my Mother seems finely
it is a great comfort to have Patty here, indeed we
would be lonesome enough without her. I feel almost
as if winter was coming already but I hope not quite
so soon. farewell - thou wilt excuse this for not
being more entertaing but I never felt less in a
letter writing tomorrow. write soon and with
dear love I am thy affecte. sister Selina
how is Jimmy I suppose it is master Reginald
I ought to call him. my namesake has thrown
of her cap she is a gay little body. Emy
does not yet say a word, she talks whole
sentences in her own language but nothing
more than that again I say farewell

Eliza Barrington
Dunlavin

