Ballitore: 29/12 month 1778
	I received my dear friends letter of 24th in course, & this morning sent off our dear John cheerful & in good spirits, in John Dawsons Carriage, in company with John Dawson & Molly Pemberton. Joseph Pike & Betty took his luggage in theirs I believe it was no sooner moved to them, but there was an immediate compliance  & I doubt not but it gave them all particular pleasure to serve thee  So that I hope that John will have but little delay in Dublin, which place I fear will not do well for his cough - his Saddle & Bridle went with him. I doubt not but thou will let us know how he is on his arrival with thee, & hope thou wilt have an agreeable Report to make. I had opportunity of presenting thy love to thy friends, to whom it was very acceptable. Our Quarterly Meeting was large. Samuel Spavold, Thomas Carrington, James Gough & Jane Watson were at it. Times are really very low with us in a Religious Sense in these parts - but of what use is it to complain? Robert Dudley was with us - his wife better - Sam Grubb did not come though expected. S: Spavold & T: Carrington set off yesterday morning with several friends for Edenderry-side, on his their way to Ballinderry, where I expect they will visit the families of Friends: So probably thou wilt see them again - Thomas follows Samuel up & down, finding I suppose a freedom so to do, & Samuel follows I believe the Leadings of Truth in the course of his service. Thomas was remarkably lively in his appearances at our Quarterly Meeting: he is a wonderful man - Thomas Wily not yet crossed the water - I believe he finds it hard to get disencumbered of the world, & not easy to shake a loose leg - Its said that Sam Neale & Joseph Garratt are about setting off to visit London: its thought they will come to Dublin to take shipping, having no inclination to be carried prisoners to France. The accounts now most recent among us from America are that Friends there have suffered exceedingly in their property - Thomas & Susanna Lightfoot among the rest - that there were 178 friends in prison in Philadelphia, mostly for refusing to bear arms - that two Friends Abraham Carlisle & John Roberts (the latter a rich man, having a large family & of good esteem) were under sentence of death, & confined in the dungeon  that one of them had his legs much hurt, some said cut to the bone by the Straitness of the fetters - that application had been made to Congress, & orders given to have them eased: in short, that extreme sufferings attended our friends there, information being taken against them from any envious person that chooses to accuse them.
	My family is (through mercy) favoured in general with health - My wife pretty often complaining, but I trust not very bad - Debbys face but indifferent at present, Mollys jaw has been ailing - Sally so well as to be with us at the Quarterly Meeting. Aby went yesterday with the Friends towards Edenderry - Richard & James Abell (the two young-men from Cork, who had come as guides with J:J & T:C:) intimates of Abys, went with him I believe principally to see & be acquainted with the Intended of their friend. Lydia has got a certificate to Dublin, though not yet moved thither. Perhaps they may make their first presentation three weeks hence. Molly Pemberton extends her hospitable, maternal care & protection to Lydia. When that affair will be over I suppose M:P: intends for Anner-mills near Clonmel to take care of John Grubbs wife expected to lie in.
	Thy account of Joseph & James is not as we could wish - yet we will hope that thy next will bring us better news respecting them. I need not caution thee against repining at the dispensations of Infinite Wisdom, nor inform thee that the parting with innocent children is far less grievous than to be wounded to the heart by their misconduct. Experience in affliction, as well as Experience of Consolation have schooled & disciplined thee; so that thou hast learned to submit to the hand that in mercy chastises the adopted children, & with filial Fear to look up in Resignation to him who has appointed the Rod & decrees the number of the stripes - Thy Cousin John Wright was at the Quarterly Meeting: the trouble of his sons behaviour seemed to have humbled him & brought him nearer Good. he reckoned that his wife bore the calamity as well as could be expected.
	We had a number of very agreeable Friends lodging with us old people at the Retreat. The young folk had also their guests at the Busy-house - My wife says that she would not have sent the led coat, which John took with him & wanted mending, but that he seemed particularly desirous of taking it  she purposes to have the rest of his clothes forwarded to Athy as directed.
	We all unite in near affection to thee - we love & respect thy worthy father. Remember us very cordially to thy brother James & all the children.
		I am, my dear debby,
						thy truly affectionate
							friend & kinsman
								Richard Shackleton.

