My dear Cousin,

Limerick: 3/7 month 1779

			I refer thee to the inclosed for intelligence, request thou will seal forward it when opportunity offers - This method saves me a repetition of writing: & indeed were I not as it were confined here, I could with difficulty get time to correspond with my absent friends. We long to hear from thee, we long to hear from Ballitore, we long to hear from Dublin. I don't know but that I informed thee of our intention of sending Molly to Dublin, to one Angier who professes to cure impediments in speech. Sally is I suppose at Clonmel still. She got a little excursion from thence with us to Joseph Jacksons & Joss Fennells & went (after we left those parts) to Billy Fennells - We found Peggy indisposed when we reached Clonmel: I believe she had miscarried but she grew better, & I hope is now recruited, which I would be glad to hear: so that I might add, we also long to hear from Clonmel. Our confinement here favours our writing to our friends, but is not favourable to our desire of hearing from them. My Grandson was poorly, peeking, & peevish, my Grand-daughter fat & jolly, had just the look of an honest friend, or Anne Poole in miniature. No great expression in her countenance, but a Look of placid Content, of Peace & Plenty - Molly, by a Letter which we received from her at Clonmel from Dublin, as also from Joseph Pike, has (it seems) entered under Angiers Care, but we can yet form no judgment respecting the success. Poor Debby is left at home to keep house for us, but she has near Relations & near Friends for near Neighbours - This unusual scattering of my family, & Separation from them has opened a new Scene upon me; & I have been deeply dipped in baptizing, humble, mental petition for our preservation, that however we are scattered one from another, we may not be scattered from Divine Notice & Protection - We have met with divers agreeable friends & promising youth in this city: but the Rod of affliction has been among their families, some of them having been closely tried by the privation of their pleasant innocent children, though much skill joined to parental solitude had been employed in vain for their Recovery - As when we were in the North, so in the South, there has been a rumour of an Invasion: but this does not seem much to affect the morals or conduct of the Generality. They do not appear to be much alarmed with any thing, which they do not immediately see, or feel.
       I must conclude - Our dear love attends thee & all thine - We want much to know how it fares with dear John, & indeed with each of you. Remember us very affectionately to thy father, to Joseph Richardson & Aby Atkinson - also to dear James Moreton, & thy brothers James & John when thou hast opportunity with thy brother Linton's family & dear Molly Phelps. We would be glad to know how thy niece at Rathfryland got through, as she was about lying-in~
       		I am, my dear Debby,
       					thy affectionate friend & kinsman
       								Rich Shackleton.

P.S. We hope Thomas Chandlee is by this time well, & feels & thinks himself so. Our love to him & to Cousin Sam Carleton, if he be yet in your country - My wife received Cousin Tommy's Letter, & requests thou will excuse her to him that her travel, engagements, &. have prevented her reply. We are both (through mercy) tolerably well. 


