Ballitore 2nd of 7th mo: 1780
Dear Molly,
I received thine, & was highly
flattered to find thou did not quite forget me,
though surrounded with so many delights. I heartily
congratulate thee on thy enjoyments and wish they
may be numerous & permanent. I suppose thou wast
much disappointed at not seeing my Uncle & Cousin
Debby at Clonmel they almost surprised with their
sudden appearance after we heard of their landing
Poor Debby is not very well, much dispirited by
a dizziness in her head (Poor Francis troubled in
mind!) It is not in the power of every one to cheer
her but yet I believe there are seasons in which
she nearly forgets her disorder. Perhaps I shall
have the pleasure of seeing thee some time hence
but not in Ballitore as thou art so easy about
re =

returning hither before I go I should wish if convenient
to thee to have the watch patterns for Harpen. I could
never reconcile myself to the life of a School-master
so I judged it would be most prudent without any
farther delay to apply myself to some thing else
upon signifying to my uncle my wish to get into
another line of life he was so far from discouraging
me that he kindly interests himself in procuring
a proper place for me.
Far to the South, far from this smiling vale,
Where Cork uprears her stately head I go:
Adieu sweet shades!
My Uncle has written to Cork to-day in my favour:
If my lot should be cast there I shall not have
many opportunities of enjoying thine & my [insertion]other[/insertion] dear Friends'
company but hope to hear frequently from you.
Ballitore shall ever be dear to me & the many scenes
I there was witness to reviewed with pleasure. Now
for the adventures of the magnanimous P.H.J. as

related by himself. During the course of his study in
Edinburgh his thoughts happened to ramble upon Navigation
& considering how imperfect such an useful art
was he set his wits to work to find out how he might
be of service to his country in making some improvement
therein It would be a capital thing to destroy the enemies'
rigging therefore he went to work forthwith & invented
a kind of shot which would effectually do it
& would deserve the severest punishment if he should
c[unclear][/unclear] from his country what was of so much importance
to it He left Scotland in a high stile & gave
it out that business called him to London which would
turn out much to his advantage The curiosity of his acquaintances
was raised each formed his own conjectures hence the
variety of reports that was spread As he wished to conceal his
real motives for the trip he indulged every one in their
own notion. When he came to London it was absolutely necessary
for him to cut a great figure in order to be respected
& taken notice of by the Great. He danced attendance on all
the Ministry round & at last after smarting well in his
finances he was introduced to Lord Amherst in whose department
the cognisance of such matters lay He made his proposal & was

received as he could wish, encouraged to reduce his ideas to
practice at his own expence & if he should be successful
he should be reimbursed & amply rewarded but unfortunately
his money did not hold out nor even his credit he had just
brought his invention to perfection & was prepared to prefer a petition
Mary Shackleton
Clonmel.
There are no franks addressed to thee in thy desk but some for
Jemmy Daniell & Nathan of Matthews's if these would
pass we can send them.
W Rayner
Ballitore 2/7 mo: 1780.
Answered 9 -
to the King when he was obliged to decamp in order to
get a supply & is come over to Ireland to sell his freeholds
If the Ministry do not reward him according to his deserts he
has a greater invention in reserve which he will discover to the French
who know how to recompense merit. Adieu, dear Molly. I am thine W Rayner.

