Mary Shackelton's Dreams
It was, I believe, in the night of the 15th/2nd mo. 1780,
I dreamed that I had a little garden of my own
to cultivate, in which were many weeds, & though I
readily pulled off the tops, the roots were with
difficulty extirpated: But when I had at last
conquered them, & dug farther into the ground,
I perceived two large roots, out of one of which
was a fine green sprout, which I thought (were
it not for the weeds) might have appeared above
the earth; & was going to mould it up, when a
heap of books was laid upon the roots. I did not
mind them at first, but was proceeding in my
work, till I considered, that these books might
damage or destroy the tender plant: so I removed
them all, closed the ground, & had the satisfaction
of seeing the little sprout come up, not without
hopes of its becoming a plant of renown.
On

On the night of the 27th of the same month,
I dreamed, that I was at the Mill-house, which
was only inhabited by Ghosts & Enchanters: It
seemed to be my late Aunt Deborah Carleton
& my late Cousin Samuel Carleton, who were
with me; & Cousin Samuel seemed to be shewing
us the place. I wished to see an Enchanter;
& Cousin Samuel opening the Scullery-door
shewed me one, who was on his knees, & appeared
to be praying, with his back to us. Though
I was desirous to see his face, which I imagined
very frightful, yet my curiosity was not
gratified, but I was glad to get away unperceived
by him, as I thought he would kill
me, could he get at me. Cousin Samuel told
me that he would shew me the chief Enchanter,
& took my aunt and me into the brew-house,
(which is fallen down, though in my dream I thought
it

it standing). When we entered & walked along
it, I grew very fearful, but fortifying myself
as though with the spirit & sentiments of a
Knight-errant, I courageously expected to meet
with more adventures. At length my guide removed
some great bars, & a door flew open in
the wall, at which I entered, & it immediately
closed, & the bars fell down, fastening me in, &
shutting out my Aunt & Cousin, whom I saw no
more. I looked about, & found myself in a
very small, square room or dungeon, in which
lay the Enchanter asleep, in the form of a monstrous
ape; & in the corner of the room stood a
beautiful damsel, whose name was Fanny, with
her hair dishevelled, & her hands tied behind
her. I thought then that I was a young man
& that Fanny must be my Sister, or Sweet-heart,
whom I had lost, & now found here. I was in great
fear, that when the Enchanter should awake,
he would devour us, & saw no way to escape.
At

At length, I espied a sword, which I unsheathed,
& raising it in both my hands smote off the
Enchanter's head, & immediately the doors & bars
flew open, & we were set at liberty. Then leaving
Fanny in the care of my Female Friends, I set
out to destroy all the Enchanters that I could
find, many of whom I slew while they slept.
At last, I came to the one which I had seen
in the Scullery, who was also asleep, but I
could not find my sword to dispatch him;
so striking him with a cane, I demanded
his name; he told me some strange name,
& looking up I found to my great surprise he
was James MccConaughty, who I thought had
been under enchantment. I was overjoyed to
find I had escaped killing him, & very glad
I had mislaid my sword, which was now of
no farther use to me.
MS.

