A. S. to a Relation
							Ballitore 12th of Tenthmonth 1768.

	*** “It is certain, if we are not watchful and careful to step along in true fear, during our pilgrimage through the wilderness of this world of dangers, we shall suffer great loss, and let an enemy into our habitation, who will sow one kind or other of evil seed, and suffer the loss of the unity of the spirit, the inward guide, which is the bond of such peace, as far too many are quite strangers to, seeking only to gratify a carnal inclination. And sooner or later they that do so must needs ‘reap corruption’; when they that sow to the spirit, taking good heed to that unerring guide, the experienced apostle tells us, are to ‘reap life everlasting.’ And the fruits of the Spirit are meekness and sweet peace and joy, even in this life. Such are preserved by the rod and staff, and are no strangers to the working out their salvation with fear and trembling; and if they hold out in true faithfulness to the end of the race, will not be surprised without the heavenly oil in their lamps, at the midnight cry, ‘The Bridegroom cometh, go ye forth to meet him;’ they having been  so wise as to keep their lamps burning, and their lights (to others edifying lights) shining.
	I remember, my dear Cousin, I felt good, inward good, in thy house, and this certainly is the saint’s food; by this, the bread that descends from heaven, their souls are nourished up to eternal life. The poor in spirit hunger for this, and He that tries and knows their poverty, and the sincerity of their honest hearts, fails not to fill and feed them in due season, that they faint not; for his goodness and tender mercies endure for every.
	Thou hast children: tell them where durable riches are to be found: watch over them that they may be fruitful vines growing by the sides of thy house; that so the Lord of life, who is continually watching over us for our good, may have babes to praise him from ongeneration another. Oh! that I could see, while here, the sweet-smelling and fir-tree succeed the thistle and thorn, that only encumber the ground, and bring not fruit, like trees of righteousness, to the honour of the good husbandman, who is looking for fruit. Let us not, dear Cousin, be unmindful to watch always; and thus being preserved in our allotments, we may be of some service to our children and others, and have authority and true discernment to rebuke the stubborn, strengthen the weak, and comfort the feeble-minded, & be useful members of that spotless church, whereof Christ Jesus is the only head and high-priest. ***
	My son and his are a comfort to me in my old age, and join me in true affection for thee and thine.
										A. S.


