My dear Cousin,       						    Ballitore: 12/3 month 1778.
		At my Return from our Province Meeting at Montrath I found thy Letter. It is always pleasing to me to hear from thee: if thou will take the trouble to write me long letters, I may well give time to read them. Even thy small-chat & little intelligence are entertaining, & as to thy sentiments about matters, if I do not like them, surely I need not adopt them. But really I think we accord pretty well in opinion about most things. Some of you women I believe sometimes affect to dissent, for argument-sake, such a life ye have in contradiction.
	We continue (thank Providence) to be favoured with tolerable health, my sister Carleton better, though still complaining, thy mother stout & hearty, we expect thy sister Watson to pay us a visit soon in order to see her. Our John is bravely. Andrew Wilson (next door) has had the children inoculated: it has not yet taken apparent effect I suppose. I believe timely care will be taken before the infection spreads to remove John to Athy: which seems the conclusion of the women, to whom I leave the Rule in these matters. I believe thou art quite right in thy sentiments concerning the infection arising from Inoculation; but our females here have settled it otherwise; & it would be to little purpose for the whole Faculty to say they were wrong.
	I note thy son Jimmys Tour with his Uncle to England. I trust & hope a blessing will attend the latter for his attention to thee & thine. Thy son is young (one would think) to profit much by the Jaunt; but some lads arrive at a maturity of understanding much sooner than others, & I doubt not but thy James will reap advantage by going under his uncles protection. I had a long letters lately from Esther Tuke, Anstis Sparkes & Molly Barnard from England, likewise from happy John Grubb: I suppose his happiness will be in its Zenith on the second day of next month: auspicious day; for on the same day of the same month I was ^first^ blest with an excellent wife. I have no Frank ^to^ thee, neither is it convenient to me to write now, but I thought thou would want to hear about John. Having a frank to John Conran, I put this under his care. I know not what he will do with his love-affair. I wish he would either give it up like myself, or succeed like John Grubb. John Conran has sent me a gardener, the gardener recommends one Henry Jenney Esquire at Harrymount near Lurgan for a tenant for my Mill-house. Please inform me of the character & circumstances of said Jenney. If they are agreeable, I wish some one would put it in his head to take the place.
	Our meeting at Mountrath was more agreeable (I think) than has been usual at that place. Dear James Gough & Mary Ridgway seemed favoured there. Betty Hutchinson was not there, but her daughter Molly, who is vastly altered, looked plain & solid. I wish she may hold on the right way. Next Province Meeting (Quarterly) to be at Mountmelick. Poor John Gough must have been much troubled about Reubens flight. Our dear love to Molly Gough, tell her that though she was under a prior engagement to thee, we claim the favour of her next visit to us, which we would take exceedingly kind. We are concerned for thy poor Peggys indisposition, hope she is quite recovered. All our dear love attends you all.
	I am, my dear Cousin,
									   thy affectionate kinsman
										    Richard Shackleton
