Lisburn 12 mo. 28th 1809.
I have delayed writing to thee, my dear friend,
much longer than I wished, as I expected an answer every
day from the printer; he has not given an answer about
printing the poem, & my father says I need not expect an
answer until he goes to Belfast next week. We have got
all the "Anecdotes" sold, and I will be much obliged to thee
to send me 50 copies more by the first opportunity.
Please tell Betsy Shackleton that I have sold a great many
of the gloves. In my next letter to her I will tell her
how many I would wish her to send me. Women & children's
nankeen habit gloves are in very great demand, and
mits for children. I hope the straw business goes on
successfully. I intend sending all the poems I have, written
by J. B. Trotter to Ballitore with the next Magazines. I intend
also to send a night cap belonging to A S which M. Dawson
says he left at Stramore. And the first proofsheet of Miss
Balfour's Poems, some more proofsheets are printed since, but
I have not seen them. I fear some people will accuse Miss Balfour

of imitating Campbell's beautiful Pleasures of Hope, & I think
with reason, as she seems to have made Campbell her
model. I fully agree with thee that M Edgeworth's
tales are excellent, yet there are different degrees of
excellence, & I am not inclined to place Ennui in the
superlative degree. The whole story is unnatural, and
changing at nurse has been a circumstance so often made
use of in Novels, that I think such a thing was unworthy
M Edgeworth's good sense. There are many, very many
excellent sentiments in Ennui; yet upon the whole it
certainly did not please me; but if I would confess the whole
truth I would also tell thee that the best written publication
would displease me if it was to place the Irish in
a ridiculous point of view. The description of the post carriage
I still think is a caricature. I will certainly admit
that Irish post carriages are very bad, & have often pitied
the poor horses that get such treatment, yet I do not think
that such a caricature description will go any good, or
help to remove the prejudices against the Irish; The
only thing I like Miss Owenson's writings for, is because

she seems determined to do all she can to remove the
prejudices against the Irish, & the prejudices of the
Irish protestants against their catholic neighbours.
I wish very much to hear how thou gets on with the
Dialogues. Has thou heard lately from Ben Haughton? I
am very anxious to hear if he has got quite stout again.
I hope the Editors of the Ballitore Magazine will favor
us with some of the late numbers of their magazine,
if they will send them I will be careful that they
[unclear]shall[/unclear] be safely returned. We are all very well 
except my Father who is often ill with the rheumatism.
Betsy is quite recovered, & I never was stronger or in
better health. We still look forward with very great
pleasure to our jaunt to Ballitore. I got Elizabeth's
Invitation to Chloe inserted in the last Magazine, as I
thought it very pretty. The prose is much better than the
poetry in the next magazine. There will none of the
Court of Juno in the next magazine, which will be no
loss. I think it is a long nonsensical dream which does not
do credit either to the author or the Magazine and I cannot

help thinking that altho' the writer affects very great respect
for the female sex, yet he certainly has a very poor opinion
of them or he would not make them drink such a quantity
of cherry brandy. I am sure, my dear Friend, I have very great
cause to apologize for this wretched scrawl, but I have been
interrupted very often, & it is now post time before I have
written the half of what I wished to say when I began.
With dear love to Betsy S., Mary, Elizabeth, Deborah &c.
I am my dear Friend thy very affectionate
S Hancock
LISBURN
73
Mary Leadbeater
Ballitore

