Limerick 30 June 1828
Dear Edward
I do not like that so unusual
an occurrence as my writing to you, should
be merely to give you trouble, but so it
is - As my sister Sally expects to be
in Dublin on Thursday evening next & to
come home on Saturday, I shall feel extremely
obliged by your having the renewals
of the Ballitore leases perfected if possible
on or before Friday so as to be ready for her
to bring with her, for I am really beginning
to be uneasy lest too long a time should
elapse & so put us in the power of Mrs Johnson
an event you are aware by us means
to be desired- I expect you will urge the
attorney not on any account to have them
delayed so as to miss this opportunity - Dear

love to Sarah I hope she & the bairns go on
well - I am as usual at the bank and very
closely occupied - not so overwhelmed as I
was however last winter - with not much
inclination to lift a pen in any other service,
after holding one for eight or nine hours-
I leave the family correspondence to Lydia
& I think she acquits herself as well as her
relations - Possibly I may see you in
August for a day or two - if I can obtain
a furlough - it would be refreshing to take
a look at you again -
Your affecte. brother
J.J. Fisher 

My dear Edward. I wish Sarah would write
to me & tell me where you are & what you
are doing. I suppose Sarah & some of the
young ones to be in Ballitore or Moone - but
it seems next to impossible to elicit a line
from that quarter. I want badly if she be at
home to beg of her to send me the earthenware
& glasses before our meeting & I will send
at once an order for money to her to purchase
them for me - I hope
I shall once more feel
the pleasure of being
out of debt to you - except the debt of gratitude
which is easily repaid by affection. I wish I
may look forward to having you here this summer -
do not let it pass without your seeking
our clime. Consider that every year will be
adding to our stock of cares & anxieties &
will be taking from our wish to ramble from
their vicinity. I hope thy mother & sisters are
recovering their health & spirits which were so
much shaken when I had last the sad pleasure
of visiting the lovely glen. - my dear love is to
them if thou thinks of giving it, our young
ones are as well as fresh air & country living can
equal to the fair maid of Perth who was a
stupid piece of perfection by the bye You will
see [unclear] there [/unclear] fair maid who will be returning
to us the latter end of the week I suppose
or rather hope that none of your young ones
are cooped up in the city this glorious weather.
Dear Edward I am
thy affte sister
L J Fisher

make them. James is just at present very busy
making up quarterly accounts - but after that
which will be finished in about a week - he
hopes to have a good deal of time. I wish
some of you would come to help him to lay
it. Do, if at home, dear Sarah write by post
to me & tell me may I trouble thee with
my orders which I would have sent a week ago
only I heard thou wert in "our native vale" & the
meeting frightens me for alas! it will be next
first day two weeks. - Is John coming to it
Frank Malone - assure them that we have beds
& a cordial welcome for them & that we have one
or two very pretty girls to sport at the meeting in
this our famous old City. though they may not be
Edwd Barrington
186 Gt Britain St
Dublin
LIMERICK
1 JY
1828
D
2 JY 2
1828

