Kilgowan 14th December 1821

Kind Sir/

	I know your kind and generous heart will feel much at the Contents of this letter which I beg you will impartially Perceive, By a Letter from Mrs. Trench to Mrs. Leadbeater in 1812, that Letter gave me to Understand that I should prepare and teach in Ballybarnes on the Lancaster plan, and happy was I to hear the Proposal from so Honorable a Lady as Mrs. Trench of whose Goodness I heard so much. Therefore I set my Nerves [?] to work in Order to Complete a Schoolhouse for that plan, and nearly famished my family by laying out every penny I could procure or earn untill [sic] I had the place finished which cost me the Sum of 29..18..8 out of which Sum the lady by the Hand of Mr. Horan gave 6..5 leaving 23..13..8 on the poor Schoolmaster but Notwithstanding I was then happy as I had the Ladies Promise by the above mentioned letter that I should teach on the Lancasterian plan, therefore I went day after day to Ballitore School till I found myself Master of it, But O Heavens my Dear Sir, it is impossible for me to state the grief, sorrow and distress of Mind felt by my Wife and me when our friend in Ballitore gave her to Understand, that Neither She or I would be put on the footing of those Masters and Mistresses, who were in all parts teaching on that favourite plan, but left to the generosity of the [illegible] of Ballybarnes
	[illegible] been in Debt after Burying my Father and my poor Mother in my little dwelling, I could not look out for a Situation Elsewhere, but still looking up to the Goodness of the Lady for Relief, and Mr. Trench telling me in my little Garden, he would the first Opportunity let me have some Land to support me, the Lady also sent Mr. Leadbeater to give me part of Costellos Farm, but the Conditions would reather [sic] injure than serve meshortly after by the advice of Mr. Leadbeater, I took the Widow Fands [?] place for which I gave her five pounds, but now or then that holding was by far to [sic] little as an Encouragement for a Master and Mistress in Ballybarnes, as we were obliged to teach Children free to the amount of 4..10 per year after all our little improvements, which after the first year came to 9 annually so you see we paid well, for our living, Notwithstanding all the Neighbouring Gentlemen thought the Lady gave the Teacher then thirty or twenty pounds a year, this is a fact, as some of them asked me the Question, and it is a thing that is generally done.	
	But at last in August 1818 Mr. Trench and Mr. Leadbeater arrived in a Chaise at the School in Ballybarnes, and on speaking to Mr. Trench with respect to the School, I learned from him that I need not expect any encouragement towards keeping up the School for the Tenantcy
He Mr. Trench gave me orders in the presence of Mr. Leadbeater to acquaint each and every person on the Lands of Ballybarnes, that they were free from that Moment to Quit, and take with them their Stock Crop &c., and all Rents Arreay [?] &c. were forgiven them, but in Case the [sic] would remain they should pay the Arreay and Rent to Mr. Leadbeater, who was to be their Agent, in place of the late Mr. Browigg. This certainly was a kind and generous offer, with respect to the Tenantcy, but not for me as their Case and mine was very different, however I was the only person that resigned, but why [seal] I found I was not to meet the encouragement [seal] expected I then demanded some few days after my Money from Mr. Leadbeater as he was then Agent but his reply was, Mrs. Trench was the person to apply to, accordingly I wrote to the Lady, but received no answer
	Now Kind Sir you will have the Goodness to reason the point in Question with Mrs. Leadbeater, as I know by a Line from her the Lady will generously return me my Money as so small a trifle is nothing in her hands and it is of Consequence to me and my Family Moreover the Lady is receiving five pounds a year out of the School Premises + On Monday last my Wife my Wife mentioned something to Ennis with respect to a Window, I believe he took the Meaning wrong, but I will explain it to Mrs. Leadbeater in the course of Next week  I Remain Sir
	your ever [illegible]
		Alexander Dunn [?]


