Waterford 31st/10th mo: 1781
My dear Molly
It is so long since I had the [underline]subterrain[/underline] pleasure
of receiving a line from thee or Sally that I began to fear a total
suspension of your correspondence & although I wrote last to
each of you yet must suppose my trifling letters were not looked
upon as an ample return to your favours indeed I must
agree with you in that but cannot sit down contented with
the just consequences therefore request I may now & then be
indulged with the perusal of the inside of a Letter I think
I saw thy hand writing on the Superscription of one some
time since which I put in a proper train to arrive when
it was destined I never knew before that M Webster's daughter
was in part of the country I saw her since in Meeting. Do
you ever get the Sybil now to peep into futurity There are
some still to procure tall young lovers for: with sorrow I observe
that the number indisposed of bear a great disproportion
with the others. How does Pisander behave himself now
that he has crept into the good graces of such a respectable
patron? Would his Amanda be but as easy of excess
how

happily would his time flow along. My dear Molly, convey
me intelligence of poor Debby as I am anxiously
concerned about her the last account reach'd my ears
was that the trying times was arrived. I sincerely hope
every thing may have turned out well. I need not
inform thee of my excursion to Cork - I find, as you
had earlier information from another quarter I surprised
Lycoris & Oh what happiness might I have enjoyed in
his company if I was capable of enjoying it unallayed
The Same Sweetness, Gentleness & engaging Qualities as ever
adorned him shine forth with superior lustre. I almost
formed a wish. I might be settled there but then a second
train of ideas rushing on my mind repelled that wish
& proved me happier in my present situation: That
fairy scene was not always to continue. I had a
very pleasant walk the morning after I arrived which
I shall describe as well as I can: after traversing
several streets as chance directed me (for I set out with

without a guide) I espied a long level avenue
decked with a row of trees on either side I immediately
concluded this must be the Red-house walk a
thought then occurred that it would lead me to Springmount
which determined me to enter it as I walked
along I could not see any high building that I could
look upon to be Saml Neales Turret it was then I believe
concealed by trees: however on inquiry I was directed to
cross the water & soon found myself in that delightful
mansion: When I set out I had little notion [unclear][/unclear]
much bliss was in store for me- Excuse me for enlarging
so much on my own enjoyments and forbearing to inquire after
thine I assure thee notwithstanding I am much interested
therein Since EWs departure I suppose the face of things
has undergone a vast alteration I mean in your little political
affairs if I could transport me to Ballitore with
a wish thou need not set about a detail which I fear
is too trouble some Who enjoys your confidence now or are
you become as serious as old cats? My compliments to all the
little group that are so kind as to think of thy affectionate Wm Rayner

Mary Shacktelon
Ballitore
Wm.. Rayner
Waterford: 31/10mo: 1781.
Answered 26/11 -

