

118	In this year Richard Shackleton gave his second daughter, Margaret, in marriage to Samuel Grubb, and, on her settling with her husband in Clonmel, he writes thus:

R. S. to his Wife
				Ballitore, 28th of Seventhmonth 1776
		*** I suppose thou art very busy settling poor Peggy in her new habitation: the parting with her, and assigning her over into another family, and unto a distant place, has caused a sensation new to me. After a connexion has been formed by nature, strengthened by the most endearing ties of religion, friendship, and affection, and improved by long acquaintance and familiarity, a separation of this sort comes near the heart, and affects our finest feelings. We, I include my dear Sister Carleton, formed her, (or rather the Great Master formed her, and made us instrumental in his hand to model her) to be of use and service in her generation, in the place allotted to her. We might not expect to keep her always to ourselves. May she be the Lord’s, and in body, soul, & spirit, devoted to his service, whom she will experience to be the best of Masters; and I  am persuaded that her honest, worthy husband will further her, all in his power, in every good word and work. Their preferring the duties of religion before all things, giving it the preference on every occasion, rejoicing when it flourishes, and sorrowing when it suffers, is the way to draw down the Divine blessing on their heads, and to cause them to be as happy as is consistent with human condition. Debby and Abraham assist finely in their departments; and if our M. and S. be spared to us, and we to them, I doubt not but they will be a comfort to us. When i say this, it is with a hope that they will bend their minds to the best way, live in an awful reverence of their great Creator, and above all things, fear to offend him. Without witnessing a sense of religion to leaven their spirits, their company and conversation would be but insipid and unsavoury to us; and they would ever be in danger of falling into snares and many temptations, which are laid by the adversary of mankind for incautious, giddy youth **
							R. S. 
